1
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Climbers Guide to
Arranmore Island
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Rock climbing on Arranmore Island
The rock climbing so far recorded on Arranmore is all found on the dramatic west coast of the island.
This coast is easily divided into two main sections, the North and Southern ends. The rock climbing
on the island is excellent, dramatic and more than a little adventurous, the locations described in this
short article are for the adventurous exploration climber. The north coast of the island has several
sections of much more sheltered rock and the potential for further development on the island is huge.
In this article I have detailed the more dramatic and adventurous locations, there are however much
more potential for climbing around the old lighthouse slipway and steps at Rinrawros Point.
For more information on the island visit the collection of Arranmore pages detailing and the main
climbing locations on the island at http://uniqueascent.ie/undiscovered_donegal.
Arranmore Island Map
The Southern End
Dragons Back Stack
This lovely wee sea stack sits at the base of the 50m sea cliffs approx 150m west of the Stac an Iolar
basin. It is composed of an unusual black granite and provides an excellent exposed scrambling route
to it's small flat topped summit. The cliff surrounding this stack provide excellent climbing on solid
black granite.
To access the stack we paddled from the storm beach at the bottom of The Gully of the God's as for
Stac an Lolar and simply continued along the coast to a wee recess on the west side of the stack.
Dragons Back Stack Diff 40m **
Grid Ref B636144, climb the landward ridge of this immaculate wee stack on perfect black granite.
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Access is by "Gully of the Gods," and involves a surreal paddle through the pounding heart of
Darkness.
I. Miller, C. Gleeson 24/07/11
Summit of Dragon’s Lair Stack
Stac an Iolair
Sitting at the South West tip of the Island lives the iconic Stac an Iolar sea stack. (Stack of the Eagle)
This 35m sea stack sits in the centre of a truly outstanding location in a monster amphitheatre of
nautical sculptured madness. It is a short coastal walk from the main (only) road around the island to
the clifftops overlooking this immaculate sea stack. The amphitheatre that surrounds the stack is a
very atmospheric place to be indeed with all it's walls being vertical or overhanging for their full 50 to
70m height.
 Access to sea level is down a superb 120m easy angled gully at the back of the amphitheatre. The
descent is mostly stepped grass and a couple of rocky steps to a final 4m vertical wall onto the
amazing storm beach. A visit to the beach alone is well worth a look as it will leave you in awe at this
truly outstandly beautiful location. From the storm beach it is a 150m sea passage out to the huge sea
level platform at the base of the east face of the stack. Once established on the stack it is a short but
excellent traverse onto the thin platform at the base of the stack's skinny sea ward face.
The only sane route to the summit follows a steep groove up the bottom half of the sea ward face.
This takes you to a very insecure feeling ledge at about 20m up the slightly overhanging west face.
From this ledge the climbing becomes a lot more serious as the rock is of broken eggshell quality and
meaningful protection is very widely spaced. The final pull onto the summit is a very exposed affair
with massive amounts of air below your feet as you thrutch your way up the final off-width groove.
Standing on this isolated summit is a true spiritual experience and is highly recommended, alas this
sea stack presents many logistical and nautical problems to be overcome for a safe and successful
ascent.
Blood Line XS 40m ***
Grid Ref B636147. The Iconic Sea Stack known locally as "Stac an Iolar," sits in a truly outstanding
location in a monster amphitheatre nautical sculptured madness at the South West tip of Aranmore
Island. 
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Access to sea level is by "Gully of the Gods" and is the only sane access to the foot of this cauldron.
The stack is climbed by a well defined seaward facing corner on the sea ward ridge to a large airy
stance. Continue up the wall above on broken egg shells to gain a huge left trending offwidth. Ascend
the overhanging offwidth by guile to a mind blowing summit.
An ascent of this stack will live forever in your "what the f**k was I doing" memory.
S. "Jock" Read, P. Brennan, I. Miller 23/07/11
First Ascent of Bloodline film
Climbers on summit of Stac an Iolar
Humped Ridge Stack
Grid Reference B641155. This excellent 35m Quartz stack sits at the Northern end of the lonely wee
bay just to the North of Cronagarn Hill on the South West tip of Aran Island.
Humped ridge Stack sits at the mouth of the huge unnamed bay approx 1KM to the north of the south
west tip of Arranmore Island.
Access is a 1.5KM walk from the main (only) road around the island to the southern end of the 50m
cliffs, grass and scree surrounding the land ward end of the bay. Descend the grass and scree ramp
at the southern end of the bay to a large boulder field storm beach. Paddle 300m out to sea to gain
the base of the slabby land ward face of the stack.
The stack currently has six route ascending all four of it's faces, the vertical sea ward face containing
the slightly harder routes, following the main features up the wall. The north ridge is the easiest and
best route to the summit. It is a 40m ridge traverse with some incredible exposure for such a modest
sea stack.
The summit of this sea stack is washed clean by the westerly winter gales, which means in big
westerly seas this stack has sea crashing green over it's summit.
Access is by a steep grassy scramble down to a huge storm beach in the bay to the East of the
stack. Followed by a 300m sea passage.
The North Ridge Diff 40m **
Starting at Sea level at the point where the stack is nearest to land, simply climb the excellent ridge to
the summit.
I. Miller 08/06/10
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Dark Matter HS 4b 25m **
In the centre of the West (sea ward) face climb the steep chimney come corner direct to the summit
ridge.
I. Miller 08/06/10
Humped Ridge Stack from the South
At the Southern end of the seaward face the steepness eases and quartz jugs become abundant.
Seal Song V Diff 20m
Climb the line of least resistance immediately as the angle of the face eases.
I. Miller 08/06/10
Selkies Song VDiff 15m
3m right of “Seal Song” climb the airy crack and jug haul to the true summit.
I. Miller 08/06/10
Vice Grip S 25m
Climb the seaward edge of the south face, up superb quartz jugs and up through a tricky wee Groove
to the summit.
I. Miller 08/06/10
Popcorn V Diff 25m
Climb the centre of the sea ward face and up the left trending ramp to the summit.
I. Miller 08/06/10
The Slabby East face (Landward Face) is 40m long and is immaculate nobular Quartz, it can be
climbed/scrambled anywhere at Diff/V.Diff.
The Northern End
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Lighthouse sea stack sits immediately below the lighthouse at Rinrawros Point at the far north
west tip of Arranmore Island. There is parking at the lighthouse car park at the road end and it is a 30
second walk through the lighthouse grounds to the cliffs overlooking this suprb sea stack. For the best
view of the stack follow the coast around past the lighthouse for 100m and you are now looking
across at the stack's land ward facing ridge.
The land ward ridge on this sea stack is climbed at the very ameniable grade of Diff/V.Diff and
provides the best route of it's grade in Ireland. The rock is immaculate Ashfall Quartz for the 100m of
climbing up this ridge.
Access is by a super scary 50m abseil down the black slabs facing the centre of the south face of the
stack to a wee recess just above the high water mark. From here it is a short sea passage to the huge
sea level platforms at the base of the stack's south face.
The easiest route to the summit follows the stunning 100m land ward ridge. The higher you climb the
thinner and steeper the ridge becomes increasing the exposure to an outstanding level. Every hold on
this ridge is an immaculate jug and there is gear on demand all the way to the pin point summit.
A truly great route on an outstanding sea stack in a very atmospheric and potentially dangerous
location.
The Lighthouse Stack Diff 85m ***
Grid Reference B 643188. This route climbs the superb landward ridge of the Lighthouse sea stack
found below the lighthouse at Rinrawros Point on Aran Island.
Pitch 1, 30m. Starting on the huge very tidal platform at the bottom of the ridge, climb on jugs and
immaculate rock to a recess on the ridge. Block Belay.
Pitch 2, 25m. Ascend the ridge to a brief wee flattening. Cam slot Belay (1 & 1.5)
Pitch 3, 30m. Continue up the ridge on endless jugs and perfect rock to a definite and outstanding
summit.
I. Miller 25/07/09
The Lighthouse Stack, Arranmore Island
An ascent of Lighthouse Stack film
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Standing on the Lighthouse Stack
Broken Arrow V.Diff 50m **
Grid Reference B643188. This route climbs directly up the North face of the stack below the light
house on Aran Island.
Pitch 1, 25m. From the centre of the North Face base, climb up through a wee steepening on Jugs
and immaculate rock to a huge crater in the middle of the wall.
Pitch 2, 25m. Follow the jugs out of the top of the crater seaward to arrive on the seaward end of the
summit ridge.
I. Miller 25/07/09
Hybrid Theory V.Diff 50m **
Directly below the Rinrawros point lighthouse, follow the clifftops down from the buildings until you
are facing the centre of the seastack opposite. This route climbs the superb black ramp immediately
below the huge right facing corner.
Pitch 1, 25m. From the huge ledge just above sea level directly below the corner, climb the corner
ramp in immaculate black rock. Belay at top of corner.
Pitch 2, 25m. Step across the abyss and take a rightward trending line across the slab above to the
summit.
I. Miller 25/07/09
Un-Named Stack
Follow the lighthouse boundary wall down towards the sea, at the bottom of this wall is a large zawn
containing a very obvious sea stack. The stack was climbing on both its sea ward and land ward
faces on 18th May 2017 by Iain Miller.
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
Standing on the un-named Stack
Giants Reek Stack
Few sea stacks in the world compare to this 120m monster. It's location is in the centre of the Giant's
Reel cauldron, it has no easy or sane means of access to it's base and the cauldron is prone to the
full fury of the prevailing south west sea motion.
After several failed attempts to access the base of this stack by non-motorised transport, the planets
aligned and a RiB owner and his climbing son came out to play. We accessed the base of this stack
by 240hp Yanmar rigid inflatable from Burtonport, 10 or so KM away on the main land of Donegal.
On the first and only ascent to date, there were four climbers taken out in the boat, Dave Millar,
Steven Reed, James Crowe and myself. Dave and Steven were deposited at the base of the stack on
the lee ward east side and climbed a "Fu Manchu," a 140m route in seven pitches and graded XS.
James and myself were dropped off at the base of the west face and climbed the "The Sea Ward
Ridge," another 140m route in 5 pitches which we graded XS. We all met on the summit and abseiled
back to sea level down the sea ward ridge in three abseils.
Both these routes are very serious undertakings and provide a full on adventure quite unlike anything
else in Ireland.
The Seaward Ridge XS 140m
Grid Reference B653190. This route climbs the steep seaward ridge of this 120m monster stack.
Sitting in the midst of an amphitheatre of huge cliffs, access is by an ULTRA committing paddle
around Torneady point or by RiB. Abseil descent of the route.
Pitch 1, 15m. From the sea level platforms scramble up superb quartz to a large ledge at the bottom
of the steep ridge.
Pitch 2, 15m. Climb on jugs up superb rock to a ledge below steep vegetation.
Pitch 3, 45m. Continue up the ridge, alternating between superb rock and deep grot grovelling. Climb
the short vertical mud section (crux) to belay at base of first tower.
Pitch 4, 40m. Climb the knife edge ridge to the skyline summit ridge tower.
Pitch 5, 25m. Follow the summit ridge to the airy summit.
I. Miller, J. Crowe 08/08/09
Fu Manchu XS 140m 
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Grid Reference B653190. Access is as per the Seaward Ridge route. This route climbs the landward
face of the above monster stack off Aran Island. Start from the seaward end of the obvious tidal
platform at the base of the face.
Pitch 1, 20m. Climb up good rock to the base of a distinct black chimney.
Pitch 2, 20m. Climb the disconcertingly loose chimney (belayer beware) and exit right to a grassy
ledge at the base of a large hairy black slab. Excavate some holds and traverse left across the top for
the gully and follow easier grass slope to good belay off blocks in a distinct black corner.
Pitch 3, 20m. Take a spectacular traverse right following relatively easier ground to belay on at the
base of large crack on good quartz on the right hand side of the stack.
Pitch 4, 20m. Follow quartz blocks and steps to belay on good ledge above a short steep wall that
has some huge loose blocks on the right.
Pitch 5, 25m. Follow the last of the rock for 10 meters to reach welcoming grassy summit slope.
Pitch 6, 35m. Finish along the awesome ground as per the seaward ridge route.
D. Millar, S. Read 08/08/09
The Giant’s Reek Stacks
The Realm of Damocles Ridge
This impressive 200m sea to summit ridge lives in the centre of the massive Giant's Reek cauldron
just to the east of the lighthouse at Rinrawros point. It has major access issues and I do mean major.
Our access was by descending the steep slopes on the north face of Torneady point and paddling
around Torneady into the Giant's Reek cauldron, this sea passage was extremely emotional and even
now after two years I still have fond memories of being mildly terrified. Once in the cauldron paddle
along the the base of these majestic cliff's with a growing heighted awareness of your surroundings.
You are now at one with the pounding heart of the ocean and all too quickly you arrive at the small
platforms at the base of the monsterous ridge soaring above you.
The ridge is climbed in as many or little pitches as you are comfortable with. The rock is heady
mixture of immaculate Ashfall Quartz and manky grot with the hardest section of climbing being the
initial 20m above the sea.
If this ridge lived on an Irish mountain or had a slightly less emotional access it would be a classic
Irish rock climb. As it is, it is still a classic climb but it will not be the climbing that will last forever in
your memory.
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Realm of Damocles XS 200m **
Grid Reference B654193. This truly monsterous ridge rises from sea level to the summit of this
150m+ cliff. The ridge can be very easily seen from anywhere on this coast. (or a quick glance at OSI
map 1) Access to sea level is not without considerable trauma, on a long paddle was done from
Torneady Point. The route up the ridge is to simply follow the very exposed crest of the ridge from sea
to summit! This route is Awesome, un-escapable, Ultra committing and is guaranteed to make you
smile. (eventually)
I. Miller, P. Stevens 16/07/08
The Realm of Damocles Ridge
Torneady Point Stack
Torneady Point is Arranmore Island most northerly point. Sitting off it's western tip, 30m out to sea
and at the base of the 100m high mainland sea cliffs is an unnamed sea stack. It sits in a most
excellent exposed, dangerous and atmospheric location. The two routes to it's ridged summit are
relatively easy alas it's access is a bit of a mindblower.
Access is a 2KM walk from the road, either through the bog and peat hags from Plughoge (B652178)
or by following the clifftops from the Lighthouse at Rinrawros point. The coast walk is MUCHO drier
underfoot and has amazing views of the Giant's Reek coastal cliff scapes that make Arranmore Island
famous. From the summit of Torneady the only sane way to sea level (and it's not that sane) is down
the steep slope directly opposite the centre of the off shore island to the north. Once at sea level
launch and paddle around the headland to your south and into the superb channel between
Arranmore and the sea stack. Land on the stack at it's southern landward side. And Relax!
There are two recorded routes to this stacks summit, the easier route takes the ramp and groove at
the southern end of the land ward face, and provides two pitches of excellent climbing. At the northern
end of the landward face a much longer and better route climbs the steep north face in two pitches
and end in a third pitch of super atmospheric mountainous ridge scrambling. Route details are in
the Donegal Sea Stack guidebook.
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
South Face Route V.Diff 55m
Grid Reference B654196. This stack sits just to the west of the northern tip of Aranmore Island.
Access is difficult and an atmospheric and committing paddle was made around the headland to the
north. Abseil descent of the route.
Pitch 1. 45m From the small recess ledge/recess at the southern end of the landward face, climb up
jugs and the left facing corner to a large ramp overlooking the channel.
Pitch 2. 10m Climb the steep juggy corner to the southern summit.
I. Miller, P. Stevens 16/07/09
Dead Man’s Fingers HS 4B 85m *
Grid Reference B654196. This route climbs the North Face of this stack. Access and descent as for
the South Face route.
Pitch 1, 4b, 30m. Starting at the Northern end of the landward face (where the sea level tongue spits
out) climb the black slab & wall. Stepleft and continue up the jug fest to a large belay ramp.
Pitch 2, 4b, 25m. Climb the flake crack out right and continue left, ascend the steep groove to belay
on the summit ridge.
Pitch 3, 30m. An excellent and airy summit ridge traverse to the southern summit
P. Stevens, I. Miller 16/07/09