1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Cnoc an Affrain
By
Iain Miller,
Kevin McGee & Patrick Tinney
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Cnoc an Affrain
Directions: This crag sits in a pleasant location above Lough Swilly and Mulroy Bay on one of the
finest skylines in Donegal. It now has the distinction of being a road-side mountain crag. Approach
from the East and a road now takes you up to the summit, courtesy of the Wind Farm.
From Letterkenny go to Ramelton, go over the bridge and take the road on the left for Milford. Go
past the Milford Inn Hotel (5km) and after 500 meters more take the road on the right for Fanad Head
and Kerrykeel. Go straight through the crossroads in the centre of Kerrykeel and take the road for
Rathmullen. After 700 meters there is a Y junction, take the road on the right for Oughterlin. Stay on
this road for 3.6km until you come to a rough road on the right going up to a windfarm. Take this road
to the highest windmill and plenty of parking. (GR C242 298) There are gates on the wind farm road
but they are never locked just remember to close after use. From the highest windmill it is a 10 minute
walk west to the crag. (GR C239 298)
Map ref: C241298
Climbs are listed left-to-right. Go to the far left, Kerrykeel end of crag past the large slab (Heather
Rogan slab) and the big overhangs on it’s left.
Spartacus VS 4b 20m *
Start about half way between Crispy Bacon and the tree. Climb the centre of the steep wall to gain a
stance below the overhang. Climb this and follow the thin crack to a ledge above the tree. Climb up
over the bulge and continue up the final wall on the left side.
K. McGee, P. Tinney. 15/04/10
Crispy Bacon VS 4b 20m **
Climb the central groove to just below the jammed block and grass. Move left and climb up the centre 
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
of the short steep wall.
K. McGee, P. Tinney, G. Scott. 10/04/10
Aisha HVS 5a 18m *
To the right of Crispy Bacon follow a faint crack up the centre of the face to a ledge. Climb past the
horizontal break and up the groove above with increasing difficulty to gain a good stance above the
overhang. Follow the crack easily to the grass and climb the edge of the right block.
K. McGee, P. Tinney. 24/04/10
Limbo E1 4c 18m *
Start directly below the right edge of the overhang. Climb up the face between the two cracks to a
stance under the overhang. Move right into the chimney and climb this until you can make the airy
step to the lowest foothold on the arete. Place some protection, make the step and climb the edge of
the arete to the top.
K. McGee, G. Scott. 01/05/10
Next right the following climbs are located on the big overhangs to the left of the “Heather Rogan”
slab at the highest point of the crag.
Mid Life Crisis E1 5b 22m ***
To the left of Anaphylactic Shock is a large face. Start in the middle and climb the obvious ramp or
directly up the face to a protruding block. (microwire protection) Make an awkward move and stand on
top of the block. Move right to gain the cracks and place some good gear. Climb up these and
continue to the base of the next wall and continue up the centre of the wall until the holds run out.
Delicately move left to a thin crack with good nut placements and holds at the top, finish up the centre
of the overhang.
K. McGee, P. Tinney 29/08/10
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Anaphylactic Shock HVS 5a 22m **
To the left of the ivy covered face is a large overhang. Start on a small rock outcrop below the left side
of the overhang. Make an awkward move to gain a stance on the face and climb to the base of the
roof (good pro). Move left in to the groove and climb this direct to the top.
K. McGee, P. Tinney 01/08/10
Neytiri VS 4b 22m
The large open book corner with the roof 10 meters left of Spring buck. Climb up crack in corner on
good holds and gear until the crack gets very small about 1.5m below roof. Step out onto left face and
traverse to large ledge on the arete. Climb up the arete and move right when level with roof. Finish up
steep wall above the roof on good holds.
P. Tinney , K. McGee 02/10/10
Fill the Census E1 5b 20m **
Start as for Neytiri and climb up to the roof. Place some small cams in the crack in the roof to the
right. Reach up for holds in the crack, get your feet up and layback across roof to a block with good
holds and a small ledge below. Make a long step to good ledge on the arete. Then move up into
corner and step left onto slab above the overhang. Climb across slab and exit on left on large holds to
large belay ledge.
P. Tinney & K. McGee 10/4/11
Towards the left hand side of the crag and almost at the highest point is the impressive clean
“Heather Rogan” slab. The following climbs are on this slab located to the right of the big overhangs
and to left of the descent gully.
Springbok VS 4c 25m
Towards the left hand side of the slab is a deep leftward trending crack. Gain this at about 4m and 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
traverse left and up to the edge of the slab. Follow delicate moves left and into the diedre, which is
climbed on better protection and holds to just below overhang. Step right and back onto the upper
slab, where good footholds trend right and up to finish near the centre of the slab.
A. Tees, I. Nutall 01/08/04
Smoke on the water E2 6a 20m **
Start up the thin vertical crack on the left of the slab and climb directly to the overlap. Use a cluster of
crystals high on the right to gain a small hold above the overlap. Move across to the left facing edge
(awkward) and make a few more difficult moves to gain good holds and a spike. Move out right on to
the face and continue to the top.
K. McGee, P. Tinney 16/10/10
Disco Legs E4 6a 20m **
In the centre of the face is an obvious flake. Start directly below the left side of this. Climb up to the
second break on poor footholds and move out right to gain a series of steps . Follow these to the next
break below the flake and arrange an assortment of poor gear (small nuts and cams). Gain a stance
on the left side of the flake and place some more suspect wires. Climb straight up to 3 small pockets
and a tiny crack. The left pocket takes a brass offset 3 and the crack takes a size 0. Aim for a good
hold about 4 foot above the gear and continue easily to the top.
K. McGee, P. Tinney 25/09/10
Heather Rogan E2 5c 20m **
Towards the left hand side of the crag and almost at the highest point is an impressive clean slab.
This takes the obvious line of weakness up its right hand side. Fairly desperate towards the top being
a bit thin on gear at the crux.
K. McGee, P. Tinney 29/06/09
The next routes are to the right of the Main Slab and left of Descent Gully
Mulroy S 4a 12m
Approx 10 metres right of the slab, is a short corner overhung at the bottom left. Climb this, and move
out left to a higher, hanging, right angled corner, which is climbed more easily. Move right and up a
short wall to finish.
A. Tees, P. Cooper 17/08/07
Peregrination HVS 5a 14m
Starts at base of wall at the bottom left of the descent gully. Follow the thin crack in centre of steep
slab to its end, step back across left to gain horizontal crack and continue directly up through the
recess above.
P. Cooper, G. Thomas 13/07/05
Shattered VS 4b 7m
Located opposite the boulder at the foot of the descent gully, 5m right of 'Peregrination' and on the
left of 'Thin Yin'. A groove leads up to a thin v-split crack, which is tackled on its left.
P. Cooper, V. Schafer 13/07/08
Thin Yin VD 8m
A poor route on the left side of the descent gully with a `squeeze' exit.
RJ Lee, A Tees
Jammed Arete HS 4b 15m
An arete with a jam crack at two-thirds height, situated at the true left wall of the descent gully.
A. McFarlane April 89
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Geoff's Barely Contained Indifference HS 4b 7m
Climbs short steep/slabby face on right of 'Jammed arete', keeping left of capped corner at midheight.
P. Cooper, G. Thomas 13/07/05
The next routes are back on the main crag to the right of the Descent Gully
Nut Scratcher HS 4b 5m
Centre of first face right of descent Gully. Straight up wall using cracks and edges (never!). Finish
over small overlap on left.
P. Cooper & G. Speciale
Vixen VS 4c 9m
2M right of 'Nutscratcher' climb centre of slabby face, finishing direct. Has a nice exposed feel but the
gear is there.
P. Cooper, G. Thomas 13/07/05
Easy Street HS 4b 15m
The first slab right of the descent gully. Just right of centre, finishing right of overlap.
A McFarlane April 89
Gilpin's Groove D 15m
Approximately 4m left of "Daddy Fox," a flake crack was followed up the left hand side of the wall to
finish through an obvious 'V' notch/groove in the crag top. Pleasant climbing using the crack and
edges.
MW Holland, J. Gilpin, J. Sinclair, J. Purcell 22/09/07
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Boulder One HS 4b 15m
The second slab right of the descent gully. A bouldering move to start.
A. McFarlane April 89
Daddy Fox S 4a 5m
A short corner 15m right of the descent gully.
A & A Tees
Welfare Scam HVS 5a 15m *
The first corner left of the main area of overhangs (the first corner right of the two slabs right of the
descent gully). Sustained and strenuous.
A. McFarlane, P. Dunlop, N. Grimes April 89
Tuning Fork HVS 5a 17m
Start about 3 metres right of welfare scam. Follow the small crack leftwards to good stance. Move
right up large flake crack and over onto main face above. Easier climbing to the top.
P. Tinney, K. McGee, M. McGinty 28/08/08
Ballbuster E1 4c 15m
Starts on the corner of the face 4m left of Gateway. Jump for holds on the outcrop and climb it on the
left side (can be protected with a sling on the first hold). Climb straight up, left of the second
overhang. Continue up over pockets and climb the wall directly for about 7m.
P. Tinney, K. McGee, M. McGinty 28/08/08
Stranded HVS 5c 16m
Start just to the right of Ballbuster. Jump for large hold (v.sharp) and place a sling on the next hold to
the right. Get right hand up to the loose (jammed) block. Gain stance in niche under the second 
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
overhang with one or two precarious moves. Move right past the overhang and climb the v groove for
about 4m to meet a crack coming from the right. Climb this easily to the top.
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney Aug 2008
Gateway E1 5c 18m
Start as for Tin A Beans 10m left of the great corner. Climb the left edge of the second overhang and
then move back to the right for 2m. Climb the leftward trending crack for 11m to top. Thin on gear
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney
Zorro E2 5c 20m **
Start as for Tin a Beans 10m left of the great corner. Climb straight up the second overhang and
climb directly up the face staying between the two cracks. There's no protection on the face but it's
covered in small holds!
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney. 22/08/08
TIN-A-BEANS HVS 5c 20m **
10 metres left of Great Corner in the centre of the main overhangs there is a pillar of rock with a
crack above. Get feet high on pillar and grab high for good hold in crack and another on the left. Move
up over rim (crux) and follow crack up over next overhang to main face continue up the crack for 4m
to small rock spike and traverse right to larger crack and follow this to top. Only protection for crux
was a sling on a rock-spike.
P. Tinney, K. McGee 22/08/08
Broken Biscuits VS 4c 20m
Four meters right of “TIN-A-BEANS” there is a large crack through the overhang, climb this out
leftwards to a good stance, traverse right out to the arete and follow this to top.
H. Hennessy, R. Redmond, S. Carrol 25/05/13
The next routes start up the large clean cut, right-facing, open book corner
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Cantabrian Cracks HS 4b 20m
Climb Great Corner to two-thirds height, then take the deep cracks in the left-hand wall. Continue up
the arete.
A. Tees, P. Marshall 19/05/90
Great Corner VS 4b 20m **
Climb the obvious cleaned right-angled corner left of Bludgeon, finish direct or bypass the final
overhang delicately on the right.
A. Tees, P. Marshall 19/05/90
Veronica VS 4b 20m
Climb The Great Corner to just above the overhang. Traverse delicately right (crux) to join Bludgeon,
and continue to the top.
A. Tees, P. Marshall 1990
Dole Bludger E1 5b 20m
Start up the first blocky recess through the right of the slab. Climb up into the diagonal crack that runs
up to a short headwall. Climb the headwall via the left-hand break.
A. McFarlane, D. Stelfox 20/11/88
Chicken Run E1 5a 20m **
Climb the overhang about 2m right of Dole Bludger and continue up to a small spike. Climb directly
up the face between the two cracks- no gear. Cross the crack (Bludgeon) about 2 metres below the
headwall and place some gear. Move right to below a thin vertical crack line and climb the face here
on small holds.
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney. April 09
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Bludgeon HVS 5a 20m
Start at the next recess to the right. A steep juggy start through the first overhang leads to another
overhang at 5m. Nip left through this to the easy upper wall.
D. Stelfox, A. McFarlane 20/11/88
Crack an Affrain HS 4b 18m *
About 25 meters to the right of The Great Corner just before the large boulder there is an easy
angled wall leading up to an overhanging crack. Climb the wall easily on large holds to a good stance.
From here place as many friends as you like then layback up the crack to large holds above and
continue easily up to the top.
P. Tinney, K. McGee. 29/08/10
Falarious S 3c 12m
The corner arete to the left of the large fallen boulder. Start up the short corner to a sloping ledge.
Move up to gain the slabby arete and follow to top. Poorly protected.
B. Reed, H. Feenstra
The SnailleTrail HVS 4c 10m
Start behind the boulder formed cave beside Bankruptcy It climbs the clean, unprotected slab starting
at the bottom and finishing at the top, via a long reach into a black groove.
N. Grimes, A. McFarlane, P. Dunlop 1989
Bankruptcy D 20m
40m right of the 'Great Corner' locate a right facing 'boulder formed' cave. Surmount cave and arete
above. (Original route on the crag)
NWMC 1950s
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
About 6 metres to the right of Bankruptcy there is a large outcrop of rock with a left facing wall.
Smigil HS 4b 12m
Start about half way along this wall beside a small knife edge arete running up left. Step up onto the
arete and make a move right to a good ledge. From the left side of the ledge move up and left to a
fine flake crack on good holds and then on up to another good ledge. Reach out right for good holds
on the steep face and finish to the top on big holds.
P. & A. Tinney 14/4/12
The next routes are on the Upper Crag, above and north of the Main Crag. 'Bless the Weather' takes
the left arete of the obvious right facing corner.
Bless the weather HS 4b 5m
The upper crag has an east facing clean-cut face, this takes the line of the arete; crux move above
gear.
P. Cooper, P. Smith