1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A Climbers Guide to
Crohy Head South
By
Iain miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Crohy Head South
These granite sea cliffs are found on the lonely stretch of coast running down the west coast of the
Mullaghmullan peninsula approx 5km to the south of Crohy Head. There are three main climbing
areas on this exposed coastline with the main face being approx 600m from the carpark and providing
an excellent selection of corner cracks and face climbing. This main face is very tidal and has a
nautical approach two hours either side of high tide. Another 500m further along the coast there is a
100m long, 15m high slab of rock at bays at either end of this 100m slab a collection of excellent
routes have been recorded.
This stretch of coast is very exposed to south west through to north west atlantic sea motion and any
swell over 2m between these directions makes this location dangerous and unclimbable. The nearest
alternative climbing locations are Cruit Island, Owey Island and Gola Island.
Directions: From Dunglow main street take the coast road out of the town towards Maghery Village.
This road is to the left of the Bank of Ireland as you approach the main street from the roundabout on
the N56 Crolly to Glenties road and is poorly signposted. Once on this road follow it for 2.5KM and
take the road at the T junction sign posted for Meenacross, follow this road for approx 5KM until you
come to a crossroads. Turn left here and follow the coast for approx 2KM to a small jetty at the end of
the road. From here walk along the coast for about ten minutes until the coast sweeps back into a
large sheltered bay, the main crag sits at the back of this bay.
Map ref: B742052
The next routes are described from left to right looking at the crag and start with 'Norman's Myth'
which is to the left of the descent steps.
Norman's Myth HVS (A1) 15m
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start at the overhanging crack/corner left of the cave, using aid to get over the roof.
A. Saunders, N. Smyth 13/02/77
Jaws S 10m
On the left-hand side of the short wall below the descent steps. Up left-hand side of the wall. Move
left across lowest edge of the cave lip to impending wall. Continue to traverse left, then up to the top.
D. Howard, N. Parker
The Gourmet S 4a 18m
Start at the foot of the descent steps, about 2m right of the quartz vein. Climb easily up below the roof
to the niche. Climb up right-hand side of roof and slabs to the top.
D. Howard, H. Williamson
Sponges S 4a 18m
Start as for The Gourmet, move right after 2m and up the left side of the undercut nose of rock to the
right. Gain the nose and climb the wall above to the top.
D. Stelfox, W. Brown-Kerr 28/07/84
Wino S 4a 18m
Start about 4m right of The Gourmet, right of the undercut nose. Follow a broad groove/crackline with
the option of finishing on the left or straight up.
J. Kerr, L. Marshall April 76
Passion VD 18m
Start at the foot of the slabby wall, capped by an overhang, to the right of Wino. Climb the wall
moving right under the roof to finish up a ramp on the right of the roof.
M. Field and Party
Endless Cycle HS 4b 18m *
Start on the large boulder 3m right of Passion and directly below a large jutting roof. Climb up and
turn the roof on the left. Go directly up and where Passion goes right, go left under the juggy block,
and finish up a superb juggy overhang.
I. Rea, M. Rea 01/10/89
Bugs HS 4b 15m
Route follows the left-hand crack of the wall, with the crux at the second overlap.
A. McQuoid, R. Armstrong 1976
Out of Touch E1 5b 15m
Start 1.5m left of Bugs. Climb straight up to a double stepped roof. Turn this on the right on small
holds and undercuts, and go up slightly left under another roof. Make a long step and reach left to turn
this and finish straight up.
I. Rea, M. Rea 01/10/89
Ghostie S 18m
The route follows the right-hand of the two cracks
M. Oakley, M. Field
McKinstry's Crack VS 4c 18m *
This route follows the obvious corner bounded on the right by a smooth black wall. Follow the corner
through two overlaps to the top. Climbing is sustained throughout but protection is excellent. Crux is
first overlap. 
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
A. McKinstry, P. McGuckin April 76 (HS +A1) FFA D Stelfox 09/03/85
Littoral Manoeuvres E2 5b 18m *
A steep and sustained line on the large face between 'McKinstry's Crack' and 'Rainman', it has a
definite crux in the lower part but interest never wains.
P. Cooper & A. Tees 04/08/08
Rainman E1 5b 18m **
At the foot of the arete, right of McKinstry's Crack pull up right onto a slab. Up this onto an orange
niche. Step out left and climb the black wall and arete to the top.
I. Rea, M. Rea 28/03/89
Lotus Blossom E1 5b 20m
Start in the alcove down and immediately right of Rainman. Layback up and continue over a series of
bulges. The crux is moving right at the biggest bulge. Finish trending right.
I. Rea, M. Rea 28/03/89
My Fair Lady HS 4b 20m
Start right of McKinstry's Crack is a broad buttress curving round to form a corner at the back wall of
the cove (Space Walker). Approximately in the centre of the buttress is a groove crackline with a
bulge at half height. Rather dirty towards the top.
A. McKinstry April 76
Maggie's Last Munro S 4a 12m
One metre right of "My Fair Lady" smear up to reach a rough rib and continue on poorish gear to a
large block, and finish (probably) as for the above.
Alan & Andrew Tees 15/04/04
Quiet Earth E2 5c 20m
Start 3m left of Space Walker below a small roof a metre or so above the ground. Go over the roof
and climb a left-facing groove to a roof. Undercut rightwards for 1.5m and pull over a roof to gain a
good resting spot on a foothold and projecting block. Climb delicately leftwards across a slab and
finish up the left arete.
I. Rea, M. Rea 01/10/89
Space Walker VS 4c 25m **
The obvious broad corner at the junction between the last buttress and the rotten back wall. Often
wet as it is a natural drainage line. Again the route is rather dirty towards the top.
A. McKinstry Sept 76 FFA Martin & Mark McGuigan May 04
North Side of Main Crag, beyond descent steps and left of the cave is a long steep wall. Around the
seaward side of this is a huge easy angled slab, with a dirty corner at its left-hand side. The next two
routes are on this slab and many variations are possible.
Rambler D 24m
Follow a line up the left-hand side of the slabs about 5m out from the left-hand corner.
Rockhopper D 23m
Up broken rock at the right-hand side to gain edge of slab. Follow right-hand side of slab to the top.
Red Wall Area
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
North of the Main Wall Area a rock tower with a reddish coloured seaward face can be found. Routes
are left to right.
Ripple HS 4b 15m
The arete left of Sunshine Corner, starting at it's base, beginning gymnastically over a bulge but
easing off with a left-trending finish at the top.
I Rea, M Rea 28/03/89
Sunshine Corner VD 15m *
Route follows the obvious deep corner to the left of Retreat. Move right at the top to avoid some loose
rock.
A. McKinstry, P. Mangkin
Muscles to Start S 12m
Start 3m right of Sunshine Corner at a slight bulge follow the crack that trends left to the top.
Retreat V.Diff 15m
One of the many variations possible up wall left of Red Wall. This one follows an obvious corner line
about 4m left.
A. McKinstry
Red Wall S 12m *
Left of the slab is a dark overhanging corner, with some possibilities, and left again a tower of rock
with a reddish coloured seaward face. Route climbs the obvious line up the front of the tower.
M. Field, M. Oakley
Pinnacle Wall Area
Approx 500 meters North of the Main Crag, as the ground begins to rise towards the dominating
headland, at the southern end of a 100 meter long slab, there is a black wall with a pinnacle attached.
Pinnacle Wall is the North West facing steep wall of excellent black rock, to which the pinnacle is
connected.
Access is gained by heading towards and then past the top of Pinnacle Wall a descent ramp on the
seaward side of the pinnacle.
The following two routes are on the landward facing wall of the pinnacle.
Johnny's Crack Diff 14m *
The wide crack on the left of the pinnacle (facing it). Climb the wide crack to a ledge on the ridge and
follow this to the top and belay on summit.
J Sweeney, M Sweeney
Pinniclis S 12m
The thin crack up the centre of the pinnacle starting from the ramp and passing a ledge to summit.
H. Boyle 01/04/94
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
The next four routes are on the Pinnacle Wall, starting with 'Immram Brain' at the leftmost edge of the
face.
Immram Brain VS 5a 20m *
This follows the curving left-hand arete of the wall. Start as for Fir Bolg for 3m to a good hand hold,
swing across blank wall to reach a good side hold. Continue left to left trending flake and then climb
thin cracks that follow the arete out over space. Well protected.
H. Boyle 01/09/94
Black Pete E1 5a 17m
The wall between 'Fir Bolg' and Immram Brain', gear can be a bit spaced.
P. Cooper, A. Tees 04/08/08
Fir Bolg S 16m
This takes the central crack up the wall. Start 3m left of Bungalow Blitz. Climb crack on good holds to
a small corner to top.
H. Boyle, M. Sweeney 01/09/94
Bungalow Blitz HS 4b 14m
Right hand side of Pinnacle Wall. Approx where the ramp ends, there is a small sloping ledge. Gain
the ledge and move left to gain left trending cracks which are climbed to better holds to top.
H. Boyle, J. Sweeney 01/09/93
The next climbs are on the seaward side of the descent groove.
Dope on a Rope VD 10m
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start 1 m left of Chappy. Climb shield flake and directly to top on excellent holds.
H. Boyle, J. Sweeney M. Sweeney 01/09/93
Chappy Days VD 10m
Start on the wall to the right of the descent groove. Climb the rightward trending quartz ledges to the
arete which is followed to the top.
H. Boyle, J. Sweeney, M. Sweeney 01/09/93
Pregzilla S 10m
Starts on the ledge to the right of Chappy Days. Start near the right side of the wall, climb obvious line
trending left to the top.
H. Boyle, J. Boyle 01/07/94
At the sea ward end of the large tidal ledge below “Pregzilla,” round the corner and facing out to sea
is an excellent slab of rock. He following two routes climb the most obvious features on this slab.
Centre Slab V. Diff 10m
Climb the centre of the slab on excellent holds.
I. Miller 22/08/13
The Quest of the Yogi V. Diff 10m *
Climb the huge left facing corner at the right hand end of the slab.
L. O’Connor, A. McGinley 12/08/13
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
The next routes are in the first zawn approx 20m to the South of the Pinnacle Wall Area, find the
Pinnacle Wall area first and this zawn is right behind you. The first four routes are found on the south
facing wall and are accessed by scrambling down the quartz vein at the seaward end of the wall.
Handy Man VS 4b/4c 10m
Starting at the point of the triangular wall, step up onto waist height foothold and climb direct up the
wall to the shallow corner and deep crack at the top of the wall. Micro wire runners and a tricky couple
of moves low down.
I. Miller, L. O’Connor, A. McGinley 22/08/13
The Grimace S 4b 10m
Starting at the base of “Hal,” climb direct to and up the left facing corner at the top of the crag
I. Miller, A. McGinley 05/08/13
Hal VD 10m
Climb the right trending fault/chimney running through the overhang in the centre of the South facing
wall.
H Boyle 01/09/93
Bug Hunt V. Diff 10m
At the back of the zawn climb the wide corner chimney.
A. McGinley, I. Miller 05/08/13
The North facing wall of the Zawn 1
Route 1 S 10m
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
This route takes a pillar on the east 5m from the back of the zawn. Climb the pillar on good holds.
S. Brogan 01/04/94
Flat Calm S 10m
Climb the hanging vertical crack just right of Route 1 using the excellent selection of oddly angled
holds either side of it.
I. Miller, P. Coffield 30/05/17
Route 2 Diff 10m
Approx 4m out to sea from Route 1 climb the vertical quartz vein and up the open book corner.
I. Miller 07/08/13
Route 3 MS 10m
Approx 3m out to sea from the quartz vein climb the vertical arête on superb holds.
I. Miller 07/08/13
The next feature on the wall is a wide left trending ramp which is climbed at about Mod and provides
access to the high water line at this end of the cliff.
Route 4 MS 10m
On the sea ward side of the access ramp, starting immediately below the odd sticking out collection
of jugs climb the wall direct.
I. Miller 07/08/13
About 100m back towards the Main Wall, from Pinnacle Wall Area, are 2 narrow zawns. Between
these Zawns is an obvious white band of rock. Access via abseil.
Leprous Lips VD 12m
Abseil down the left side of this promontory to a yellow ledge at the lip of the left zawn (as you face
the sea). Climb back up, overcoming an overhang, with an eroded lip, easily on big jugs.
A. Tees, P. Cooper 04/08/08
Approx 600m North of the Main Crag and 100m beyond Pinnacle Wall Area is a far bay with large
cliffs, alas the cliff tops are rotten. The following route is on a small wall on the left-hand side of the
bay. From 'Five Pints Ago' continue rightwards via a narrow walkway. Abseil down to access.
That Dress S 10m
On the wall with a large boulder leaning against it. This takes the obvious groove on the right-hand
side (facing the wall) of the wall.
C. McDevitt, H. Boyle 24/07/94
To the North West of Pinnacle Wall Area is an obvious slab extending for approximately 100M. This
ends in a shallow bay, where the next climbs are to be found. Access via abseil.
Five Pints Ago VD 15m
On the large slabby buttress to the west of this bay. Abseil directly down from a line of small
pinnacles to a ledge. Climb short corner crack to a fabulous flake/crack. Follow this to the two facing
corners, take the smaller left-hand corner to a ledge, climb thin crack on the slab to the top. An
excellent route.
H. Boyle, C. McDevitt 24/07/94
The following routes climb the slab in the centre of this bay, abseil from the large block a few meters
back from the slab summit.
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Vision Master S 20m
This takes the left hand side of the prominent slab in the centre of the bay. From the ledge at the
base of the recessed slab climb a line near the edge of the main slab then trend rightwards.
S. Brogan, H. Boyle 01/04/94
Vision Blaster HS 4b 18m
Approx. 2m right of “Vision Master,” climb the thin grooves and fluting is the base of a gearless slab,
continue direct up the centre of the slab and up the thin groove above to the summit.
I. Miller, A. McGinley 18/08/13
Metal Head S 4a 20m
Climb the groove line to the left of “Grand Central,” easy big holds to the left end of the half way
ledge. Continue up the thin groove above to finish up the vertical quartz vein.
I. Miller, L. O’Connor, A. McGinley 12/08/13
Grand Central HS 4b 20m
Abseil to the flat topped tidal spur at the base of the centre of the slab. Climb the arête with excellent
rock, gear and moves to the large ledge, from the ledge climb the iron ore groove directly above to the
summit.
I. Miller, L. O’Connor, A. McGinley 12/08/13
Old Man’s Folly HS 4a 10m
From the half way ledge climb the grey pillar between “Grand Central” and “Gully of the Damned.”
Tiny gear essential.
I. Miller, D. O’ Connor 17/03/14
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
Next right is “The Gully of the Damned,” this is grovelled up at about V. Diff and is not recommended.
At the right hand end of this slab is full crag height pillar which marks the start of a large recess in the
cliff with a waterfall at the back.
Pilgrim’s Pillar S 22m
Climb the right hand edge of the slabby face up the centre of the tapering pillar. The lower section of
“Gully of the Damned” provides a series of excellent belay platforms at various heights dependant on
tide and swell heights.
I. Miller, A. McGinley 18/08/13
 At the far end of this bay beyond the 100m long slabby wall is a large and slightly dominating 40m
high slabby wall. Access is by abseil down the face from the line of large rock spikes found just north
of the wall’s summit dome. The rock is excellent throughout on the routes on this wall.
Monster Breaker S 4a 30m **
Running up the left edge of the main face is a huge slightly right trending corner that terminates at
the left facing corner high on the face. (shared with Central route) From sea level climb the huge left
facingcorner to the left facing corner ledge. Continue directly up from the middle of the ledge up
blocky holds and up the thin seam in the slab above to the summit.
I. Miller, A. McGinley 20/08/13
Central Route V. Diff 30m
Starting at the perfect wee niche at the centre point of the wall’s high water mark, climb the slightly
left trending orange arête to the left facing corner. Climb the corner and continue direct to the summit.
I. Miller, A. McGinley, L. O’Connor 07/08/13
Serpentine Ridge S 4a 42m
This routes climbs the south ridge of the main face, access as per above and an easy sea level
traverse to base of ridge. This route climbs the ridged skyline of the main face, easily seen as you
walk in across the cliff tops from the car parking.
Pitch 1: 30m Start in the recess just above the high tide line climb the pillar up onto the ridge through
the steepening. Belay on ledge below the head wall
Pitch 2: 12m Contemplate the direct very airy finish before traversing left and up the groove to the
summit.
I. Miller, D. O’ Connor 17/03/14