1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Eglish Valley
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Eglish Valley
Directions: Approaching from Lough Eske, a track is taken (driveable with care) over Banagher Hill,
and the car can be left at map ref. 870951. A bog track is followed for a few minutes, and the righthand
side of the valley traversed to the nearest crag "The Gatepost". This has some of the best and
hardest routes in the valley, but most new routes require cleaning. Just beyond and running parallel
with the stream, are the "Corridor Crags" the first "The Ceasefire Area", a mainly steep wall
terminates at a grassy gully. "Glenbrittle Wall", just beyond, is short and smooth, and further again,
"Teardrop Wall", (easily identifiable due to the large Teardrop Shaped Boulder balanced on top). At
the back of the valley, on the side of Bluestack, are the "Easter Crags". The furthest left and highest,
"Easter Wall" is vaguely diamond shaped, and to its' right "Middle Easter"and "Far Easter" walls.
Probably the best crag in the valley is, however, high up on the other side. "The Outpost" gives
excellent quality climbing on grooves and corners between severe and HVS in a remote situation.
Slightly further up the valley, and lower, is the "Bastion" a large bulbous outcrop with grassy terraces.
An overview of Eglish from the walk in
Map ref: G952880
Dawson Whyte Knuckle Ride VS 4c 45m ***
Towards the LHS of the main Gatepost crag, locate a largely cleaned slab with a small tree at twothirds
height, on the left. Climb the slab to level with the tree, and move right off the slab and into
crack system. Climb this using edge of flake on the right, until you are able to traverse left (thin), to
gain central crack in the wall above. This is climbed using small edges, to a large slanting ledge.
Move to RHS of ledge, and make an exposed move to gain the arete. Continue up on grooves and
spikes, move left using undercut nose, and finish in corner with triangular standing stone.
A. Tees, B. Johnston 16/08/97
Dawson Whyte Knuckle Ride Direct E1 5b 45m ***
Start as for original route. Climb 4m and where original steps right continue straight up to join it again
on the main face crack. Continue to large ledge. Step left to the base of steep finger/layback crack
and climb this to the top. Superb! A further variation was done by Calvin and Clare Torrans, starting
up `Old Dogs" and traversing under the shield and finishing up the layback crack
R. Smith, B. Johnston 03/09/00
Old Dogs (For the hard road) VS 4c 45m
Start at the bottom of the lowest cleaned slab on the main wall (about 7m right of 'Knuckle Ride').
Continue up to a corner, which is climbed using an edge on the left, and through the gap at the top to
a slanting ledge. Chimney up the back of the ledge, and make an awkward step right, to gain a grassy
terrace. Belay. A thin start (crux), leads to a deepening groove and improving holds, to next ledge.
Continue up exposed deep crack above. On the first ascent, as the final crack had just been cleaned, 
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
an alternative finish (up a flake in a corner to the left) was used.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 02/05/99
General Average VS 4c 30m
Weaves its way up the obvious cleaned cracks at the right hand edge of the Gatepost, (where it turns
into Keyhole Gully) avoiding the clumps of vegetation. From the top ledge up and left, and climb the
impending wall using a hold on the left and the deep rightward trending crack on the right (crux).
M. McGuigan, A. Tees 10/06/01
Keyhole Gully S 4a 30m
Climb the deep gully on the right hand side of the Gatepost, getting progressively steeper until you
exit through a very small fissure at the top. About severe, unless you're chubby (in which case about
E10!)
M. McGuigan, A. Tees 10/06/01
Access to the following routes are via a cleaned right to left broad crack to the left of “Dawson Whyte
Knuckle Ride. The leads to a shelf area known as the lost world. The first route starts from this shelf
at a rounded flake.
Roraima HVS 4c 25m ***
Start below bulging rock directly above the shelf at the top of the access crack at the rounded flake.
The route follows the large flake crack in the upper wall. Climb steeply over bulge to gain left trending
groove. At the top of this groove step across and into the base of the large crack/flake in the upper
wall. Climb the flake with a smile on your face and hopefully a large hex or friend on your harness.
Brilliant positions for the grade.
A. Tees, B. Johnston
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Barbarella HS 4b 20m *
Climb wide crack on the left hand side of "Knuckle Ride" to access a large jungly platform (The Lost
World) and start at the prominent corner 3 metres left of the start of Roraima. Follow corner and make
difficult moves to gain ledge. Continue in the corner to the top in fine positions.
B. Johnston, R. Smith 14/04/00
Jurrassic E3 6a 20m ***
Start 3m left of Barbarella corner. Below a left facing hanging corner/groove. Gain the corner/groove
and layback to the overhang 10m. Layback around this to a small fin of rock. With difficulty step up
and onto face and make a committing move to better jam. Sustained and strenuous. (2.5 friend useful
on gaining main face). The face is climbed directly to the top.
R. Smith, B. Johnston 11/05/00
Juniper Buttress
The next five routes are on the small buttress to the left of the waterfall wall, at the bottom left of the
gatepost area. The most obvious point of reference is the large open corner, which is climbed by “Two
Fingers of Gin.”
Ballot Box HVS 5a 10m
Start 5m left of Daxhund Days at the corner of small buttress. Climb unto ledge (awkward) Climb
overhanging corner/groove. Move right and finish up rounded flakes.
R. Smith and B. Johnston 10/06/01
Two Fingers of Gin VS 5a 15m **
Left of the main crag and also left of the waterfall, is a very obvious corner. Gain it from beneath a
small overhang with difficulty and continue up the corner to the top.
B. Johnston, R. Smith 02/07/00
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Daxhound Days E2 5c 12m *
Start 3m left of Two Fingers of Gin. There is a groove crack left of the arete with a series of small
ledges to the left. Climb to the obvious pocket and arrange gear (No.3 friend) layaway on sidepull and
reach left to ledge. Reach high right for layaway ledge and commit to face. Move up and rightwards
on poor holds to gain reasonable edge. Move up for better holds and flake on the arete (rest). Finish
via cracks on wall passing the rowan tree on the left.
R. Smith, B. Johnston, J. McCready 17/08/00
Daxhound Days Direct E2 5c 12m
Climb overhanging groove left of flake to finish.
R.Smith, B.Johnston 24/05/01
Two Fingers of Gin VS 5a 15m **
Left of the main crag and also left of the waterfall, is a very obvious corner. Gain it from beneath a
small overhang with difficulty and continue up the corner to the top.
B. Johnston, R. Smith 02/07/00
Songbird E1 5b 15m *
Start at `Two Fingers' corner. The route takes the overhanging wall immediately to the right. Follow
the corner for 2m until holds on the right wall can be reached. Make a difficult and committing move
right to gain rightwards slanting hold. Climb the wall above direct on good holds.
R. Smith, B. Johnston 18/06/00
Juniper Wall VS 4c 15m ***
Start at lowest point of Juniper Buttress. The route climbs the cracked slabby face with the obvious
right-left crack. Gain ledge 1 m and climb the left crack to the overhang (awkward). Pull over on large 
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
holds to gain the wall above. Climb the wall directly finishing to the left of the juniper bush.
R. Smith, B. Johnston 18/06/00
Teesme HS 4b 15m
Start as for Juniper Wall. Move right to corner and climb this and wall above.
R. Smith and B. Johnston 24/05/01
Above and to the left of Juniper Buttress at 20m there is a steep buttress.
Didgit Revival E1 5b 12m
Start 2m right of obvious fault/crack on white coloured wall. Make an awkward move to gain wall and
continue to overhanging head wall. Make a long reach to vertical fault-line in headwall and then better
holds finishing right.
R. Smith, B. Johnston 15/07/00
Sweet Surprise VS 4c 12m *
Start 2m right of Didgit at rounded crack running to the top. Follow crack to the top.
B. Johnston, R. Smith 15/07/00
Ceasefire Wall
Directions: Continue past the "Gatepost" until you come to a gully with a wall on the right, rising to its
greatest height as it turns into the gully.
Map ref: G952882
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Unequivocal Ceasefire Two S 4a 20m ***
This climb starts at a wet triangular alcove and continues up through scoop to overhang and right,
past vegetation to notch in skyline.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 10/6/97
Iris Robinson S 4a 20m *
Two metres right of "Unequivocal Ceasefire" climb (unsurprisingly) rightward trending holds up the
middle of the wall, until, just less than half way, you come to the crutcx. A bold move up and
rightward should do the business. Continue delightfully directly up, using a couple of lovely jugs, en
route.
A. Tees, B. Johnston, B. Magowan 01/06/10
D.Commission S 4a 20m *
5m right of “Unequivocal Ceasefire II'. Takes the line up the arete to the vegetation, then move right
and follow cracks to ledge and finishing belay point.
D. Millar M. Pailing 10/06/97
Condition of the System VS 5a 20m
Short overhung groove on the left of Ceasefire wall as it turns the corner up the gully, 1-2 metres
right of Decommission. The upper reaches of both routes are probably shared.
S Hamilton 14/05/00
Farewell to my Arms E3 5c 12m **
A fine climb up the obvious steep left trending crack on the left side of ceasefire wall. After a few
easier moves up the left side of the obvious small pedestal, commit yourself strenuously leftwards
under the crack and struggle upwards on consistently poor jams but with brilliant friend placements till 
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
the jams improve towards the top.
A. Millar, R. Moore 04/05/00
Kneecapped VS 4c 10m
Moving right from 'Unequivocal Ceasefire II', around the corner, there are huge leftward facing flakes
at three-quarters height. About 3m left of this, locate a line of steep holds (including a thread) on a
bulge in the wall. Strenuous climbing leads to ledge (and an awkward mantleshelf) and up a crack to
the top.
R. Moore, S. Hamilton 18/04/99
Paradign Shift HVS 5a 15m *
Takes the obvious huge flakes in the middle of the wall.
R. Moore, A. Millar 14/05/00
Gold Crest VS 4c 12m *
Right of the above-mentioned huge flakes, is a deep Right trending crack on the upper half of the
wall. This is accessed by steep climbing on jugs, move left, and follow the crack to the top (crux).
M. McGuigan 13/11/99
Trigger Finger VS 5a 8m
Climbs the lovely pink quartzy streak on the right side of ceasefire wall using ledge on the right. An
easier start up the groove just right again is possible. A short but worthwhile climb on good solid rock.
A. Millar, R. Moore l4/05/00
Misty Mountain Hop HS 4b 8m
Takes the groove right of gully/groove on right side of ceasefire wall. A great little hop up on to a
good foot hold leading into a nice lay-backing crack. An awkward move left up and into the chimney to
good holds and gear. Move on up to the Elephant's bum lay-backing the crack and using good
footholds on the right, mantling up to the top.
J. Frazer, S. Hamilton 14/05/00
Lepor Knuckles S 4a 7m
The rock just right of misty Mountain Hop.
J. Frazer, S. Hamilton, A. Millar 15/5/00
 Glenbrittle Wall
Between Teardrop Wall and The Ceasefire Area there are two smooth walls, one directly above the
other, like steps. The lower one is the Glen Brittle Wall, an excellent wall a short walk up around to the
left from
Map ref: G945888
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Glenbrittle Cracks VS 4c 10m **
On the lower, steeper wall,of two situated between the Ceasefire Wall and Teardrop Wall, this route
takes the most obvious set of cracks at the left-hand side of the highest part of the wall. Good
sustained climbing, but can be wet.
A. Tees, P. Smith 13/11/99
A Chap Called Norman E2 5b 9m *
A sustained little route taking the weakness a few meters left of Glenbrittle Cracks. The crux is
probably reaching the obvious flared crack below the top and it takes a good 2 friend.
A. Millar R. Moore 14/05/00
Sensitive Crimes E2 5c 11m *
Climbs the two vague lines of weakness right of Glenbrittle Cracks. Start delicately rightwards along
obvious weakness for the feet, then up past a surprising hold to a thin stance (and good gear in
discontinuous left crack). Using holds in the left crack place a good double zero quadcam high in the
right weakness or awkwardly place a poorish 2 friend high in the left. Commit yourself entirely to the
right weakness and from a good starting hold climb it direct (crux) to good break a meter below the
top. Move up, not without difficulty, to finish.
A. Millar, S. Hamilton 04/05/00
Pyrotechgnits (1 RP) E3 6a 11m
This climbs the next line of weakness between Sensitive Crimes and Karma. Start on the wall right of
the sloping ramp of Sensitive Crimes on small holds. Make sustained moves to a reasonable rest
(F0.25). Climb the broken cracks above to a flared crack(R8). Climb flared crack to top.
D. Millar, M. McGinty May 2003
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Karma E1 5b 11m **
A fine climb up the vague groove with good thin breaks on right side of the wall. Gooey at the top,
definitely so without a double zero quadcam.
S. Hamilton, A. Millar 04/05/00
Teardrop Wall
Directions:
Map ref: G952882
Birthday Boy VS 4c 20m
Start 1 m left of "Wailing Wall" and climb steeply to stand on the bleached ledge. Move left to stand
on small white hold below a thin crack. Up the crack trending slightly right, then back left to finish up
parallel cracks.
T. Fogg, P. Fogg 15/02/03
Wailing Wall VD 18m *
About 5m left of Polomint etc. this follows a leftward trending line of weakness on good jugs.
Excellent for its grade.
A. Tees, T. Philson 02/05/99
Trebor Mint HS 4b 15m
Start 3m left of Tears for Tyrone. Climb rightwards facing corner to break. Continue directly to top on
good holds.
R. Smith and B. Johnston 27/05/O1
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
Tears for Tyrone VS 4b 18m *
Same start as above, only continue up slightly leftwards, finishing by a short grass-filled crack at the
top. Sustained.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 02/05/99
Polomint HVS 4c 18m
Not much in the middle and seems to get thinner the more you "suck on it". Directly below, and left of
the rock on top of Teardrop Wall, is a small cleaned platform at about 2m. From the top of this. climb
directly up, until a short traverse can be made to the right to gain an obvious line of weakness. Gear is
poor, almost non-existent, until considerably further up, but the climbing is excellent.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 02/05/99
Crocodile Tears E2 5b 20m
Start at deep crack/flake directly below Polo. Climb to top of flake and step right to gain rightwards
facing flake (difficult). Step up and rightwards unto main face. Continue directly to top (poorly
protected).
R. Smith and B. Johnston 27/05/01
Birthday Girl HS 20m
Start on the wall directly left of "Ignorant Sod", climb directly up (small wire at 3m) trying not to stray
right. Gain a small niche with your hands, then move in an aesthetically pleasing curve to the top.
T. Fogg, P. Fogg, J. Walls
Ignorant Sod VD 15m *
This route takes the obvious line of weakness on the right-hand side of the wall. Features an obvious
steep chimney at the top.
A. Tees, S. Hamilton 76/08/98
Slozky HVS 5a 15m *
Just over 1 m to right of Ignorant Sod, follow the obvious line of weakness to the top. Delicate.
D. Stelfox, V. McAlinden Oct 2000
Easter Wall
Directions: The large vaguely "Diamond Shaped" wall at the back of the valley, approx. 30 to 40
minutes fom the end of the bog track Ref. 870951
Map ref: G952882
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
Plato's Republic HVS 5a 40m ***
On the bottom left of Easter crag is the best looking rock o n the crag and an obvious feature, an eye
shape formed by a groove that curves over leftwards to become an overhang at five metres. Climb to
the top of the groove left of, and under 'Carrickfinn Candidate' and step right over overhang to difficult
stance then back to left to good "eyebrow" foothold on lip of the overhang. Move up find slab via good
breaks to stance below a short left trending corner/crack. Climb this awkwardly to ledge then move
right up short corner to finish.
A. Millar J. Frazer O3/O5/O1
Carrickfinn Candidate E1 5a 40m
The first part of this route goes up the unprotected rock right of the large circular overhang on the lefthand
side of Easter Wall. The upper section climbs a clean curving crack above, which leads to the
top.
P. Nelis, AN Other 07/04/96
Rapa Nui HS 4a 50m **
Just right of "Carrickfin Candidate" there are cleaned cracks.
Pitch 1: 25m Access the crackline by a short leftward trending ramp, and continue up the cracks, big
jugs above, and finally a short slab to access a big ledge on the right, belay.
Pitch 2: 25m Continue up into the corner on the right, climb onto a ledge or two, before steep rock
above is overcome on a feast of spikes. Continue up on rock to belay.
A. Tees, V. Schafer 22/08/11
Mad Dogs and Eglishmen VS 4b 50m **
At the bottom of the main face is a short wall split by two cracks leading to a large grassy ledge.
Climb the cracks and continue up on good jugs, following the line of weakness until you meet a 
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
grassy terrace coming up from the right - belay. Easier climbing on cracks and flakes to the top.
A. Tees, B. Johnston 07/04/96
Mandolins VS 4c 25m
The right hand side of the main face is bounded by a grassy heather terrace, part way up this is a
cracked wall which narrows almost into an arete towards the top. Start on spikes in its centre and
continue up to the overhang, move right (crux) and up onto the edge. An awkward move left onto
small footholds brings you to the base of the neck. Steep exposed climbing to the top.
A. Tees, V. Russell 05/05/96
Easter Eigg HS 4b 15m *
About half way across the lower clean wall, to the right of the main face. Awkward start, then follow
the line of weakness straight up to the top.
B. Johnston, K. Gallagher 07/04/96
Marginal moves HS 4a 15m
About 2m right of'Easter Eigg' is an obvious crack running close to, and parallel with the edge of the
wall. Layback the crack and then continue up steeply on good jugs.
Alan & Andrew Tees 07/04/96
Middle Easter Wall
Directions: This wall is to the right of Easter Wall (at the back of the Eglish Valley), split by a gully,
with a prominent corner on its left. (Campsite Corner).
Map ref: G953889
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
Scallop Fever S 4a 10m
10m to the left of 'Throttle'. Vertical cracks and ledges lead to short finishing layback section.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 10/06/97
Hay Black Crack E1 5c 9m *
Five metres left of Throttle is an obvious clean layback feature beginning at a ledge at two metres.
Climb this to top.
A. Millar, S. Hamilton 25/05/O1
Throttle HS 14m
4m left of `Dire Straights'. Climb the series of cracks and ledges to the end of the balcony above.
Move right and up to finish.
D. Millar, B. Johnston 10/06/97
Dire Straights HVS 5a 14m
On the vertical wall 8m left of `Basecamp Corner'. There are two discontinuous left trending cracks.
One above the other. Starting on the left, Step up via lay away hold and foothold to reach right to
bottom of lower crack. Move up this until the upper crack can be reached, up this and then short
groove to top.
B. Johnston, D. Millar 10/06/97
Out of Wall Hole HVS 5b 10m
Takes the vertical cracks right of “Dire Straights”. Start as for “Dire Straights” but traverse right till it is
possible to pull up into cracks. Follow these to top.
A. Millar S. Hamilton 23/05/01
Basecamp Corner VD 15m
The prominent right-angled corner at the left-hand side of Middle Easter Crag. Climb and bridge up
on good clean holds until you reach the ledge. Continue straight up from back of ledge.
A. Tees, M. Pailing 10/06/97
Exit Stage Left VS 4c 20m *
Takes the ramps on the wall right of `Basecamp corner' but moves left to first ledge on `Basecamp
corner'. Continue up to a vegetated ledge and then awkwardly up final corner stepping left to ledge
then up precarious slab on the top.
J. Frazer, A. Millar 13/5/O1
Rasputin's Fingers E2 5c 20m **
Climbs the wall right of Basecamp corner. Start at the right arete and move up and left over a series
of ledges (As for Exit Stage Left) to fine overhanging crack Climb crack with increasing difficulty until a
brilliant hard pull onto the slab gains the top.
A. Millar, S. Hamilton 20/05/01
Jonathan Guard VS 4c 20m *
Follows line up the red slab 15M up the gully from Mayfly. A few metres right of the corner at the top
of the gully is a vague groove. Start steeply up to gain flakes on left, make an awkward move up unto
slab. Continue straight up the narrowing slab, avoiding ledge on the right, to a slight steepening and
slabby confidence move to finish.
A. Millar, S. Hamilton 20/05/O1
Heather Bailey HS 22m
Five metres down the gully from Jonathan Guard is an obvious crack leading onto a slab enclosed on
the left and above by steeper rock. Climb the crack and escape right up around corner via nice 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
situation on the arete.
A. Millar, S. Hamilton 23/05/O1
Dagger Variant HVS 5a 25m *
Start as for Mayfly. Once the easier ground around the corner is reached step left to arete and using
finger crack move awkwardly up. Follow right trending seam/groove to small but beautiful final stab
until a step left onto a ledge can be made. Up to good belay.
A. Millar S. Hamilton 20/5/O1
Mayfly HS 4a 17m *
Go to the lowest point in the crag, right of the grassy gully, (about 15m right of'Basecamp Corner').
Climb the steep vertical crack, with some heather in it, up to the overlap. Move right around overlap
on to the ramp, across easier ground to the left, and up the steep corner to finish on top of slabs.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 10/06/97
A Bridge Too Far HS 4b 17m *
80-100m right of `Basecamp Corner' is an alcove. Starting in the centre of the alcove. Bridge up
steep rock, move left at 2/3 height, and finish up vertical rock to good "pulpit" stance.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 10/06/97
Midge Ridge VD 3c 17m
A few metres left of "A Bridge Too Far" is a blunt arete with a big detached flake at the bottom, and
obvious spikes above. Step off the flake and traverse left to avoid the first steep step, regaining the
ridge above. An unmolested leader would climb the step direct, and this would make the route both
better and harder!
A. Tees, V. Schafer 22/08/11
Far Easter Wall
Directions: At the back of the valley, right of Easter and Middle Easter Walls. Has a cave on its right
hand side.
Map ref: G953889
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
Precipitation in Sight VS 4b 15m *
The far left hand arete 2m right of the overlay. Climb using the deep cracks and big jugs on
unexpectedly steep face.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 10/06/97
Two Pahals on a Spragha S 4a 15m *
5m left of overhang is a shallow corner to its right a platform - about 8m up. Start either just right of
corner (steep - on flakes) or further around edge (on crack) and move up to the platform. Continue up
crack and layback up flakes to finish.
A. Tees, V. Russell 05/05/96
Beam Me Up Paddy-Joe HS 4b 15m *
Start at the left end of the niche at the overhangs (about 2m right of `Two Paghals'). Climb steeply up
initial short wall, pull out left onto spike/platform. Move right into thinner crack (other is loose and
needs cleaned) and bridge up to get into the easier angled corner above.
F. McCloskey, R. Gallagher 13/11/99
Escape Route for Frostbite Victims HS 4b 15m
Start at the right hand side of the front face, right of the cave, at the third of the corners. Rise up and
traverse leftwards, trying your best to avoid any difficulties, until you can swing out left on a spike
above the cave and finish up the manky gully.
F. McCloskey, R. Gallagher 13/11/99
Say NothinTill Ye Hear More VD 10m
Goes up the obvious cracked slab with an overlap near its top, on the next outcrop below and right of
Far Easter Crag. Start at a step-like platform at the lowest point of this crag, just left of a fault. Route 
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
takes a direct line up cracks, through overlap to top.
F. McCloskey, R. Gallagher 13/11/99
MYI One and Two VD 10m
A small outcrop to the right of "Far Easter". "One" takes the arete on the left hand side, and two the
steep corner, bottom left, at severe.
MCI Youth Oct. 2000
The Outpost
Directions: Obvious seamed crag high up on North side of Eglish Valley
Map ref: G945888
Saloon Girls HS 4b 30m
A bit dirty, but beggars cant be choosers! Towards the left hand side of the crag, locate a shallow
corner, which is climbed awkwardly. Continue up crack(with a flaccid penis shaped feature on the
right)and surmount pillar with difficulty. Continue up eroded recessed area to the top with a few
problems.
A. Tees, P. Smith 20/09/98
Desperate Dan McGrew HS 4b 30m **
Obvious cleaned corner going up the left centre of the crag. Good jugs lead to crux at two thirds
height, where a move out right, over a bulge and back left is necessary, before continuing to the top.
B. Johnston, A. Tees
Postpartum HS 4c 30m *
Just right of "Desperate Dan McGrew" is an obvious cleaned feature running the height of the crag..
The initial corner becomes a slender ramp, and culminates in a corner and short narrow wall/slab 
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
which is split by a crack on it's right margin. The initial corner is the crux.
D. Ryan, A. Millar 07/07/00
Dingleberry Dan VS 4b 30m **
A few metres left of the "Diedre" start at an "M" shaped rock, layback, and step right to a ledge which
is traversed right. Steep climbing on good holds leads up left on easier ground to the base of a wall
split by a deep groove. Climb this (crux) and continue up series of easier moves to top.
A. Tees, P. Smith 20/09/98
Happy Arete VS 4c 35m *
Takes the arete just left of "Diedre". Start up a vague groove to ledge just left of beginning of"Diedre."
Make committing moves up unlikely looking arete until the obvious short crack feature above leads to
a ledge. Follow corner/ arete to the top.
A. Millar, D. Ryan 5/07/2000
Diedre of the Sorrows VS 4c 30m ***
A superb diedre system, starting from where the crag turns up the grassy ramp towards the Cabin
Fever slab. Probably low in the grade but sustained, with the crux high up.
A. Tees, P. Smith 27/04/99
Klondyke S 3c 20m
20m left of Cabin Fever, locate deep layback type crack system, which is climbed, past ledge, to the
top.
A. Tees, P. Smith 20/09/98
The Hangin Judge VS 4c 16m
2m right of Klondike, climb cracked ramp to overhang, which is taken on the right. Step back left into
corner & up (crux). Flakes on the right lead to top.
M. & C. McGuigan 21/07/02
Cabin Fever S 4a 12m
At the right hand side of the crag, is an easier angled slab split by a couple of grooves. Follow the
grooves and make a delicate transfer to the holds above.
A. Tees, P. Smith 20/09/98
Beautiful Barry's Wrangler Jeans VS 5a 35m
This route is on The Bastion, a two tiered buttress a few hundred metres right of the Outpost. This
takes the left trending crack feature in the middle of the upper tier. Start up obvious finger crack that
leads to the left side of a ledge at 4m. Continue up crack until it peters out, and the feet are forced
higher into it (crux)so that a long reach to a good hold on the left can be made. Continue to sloping
ledge and follow the crack up to the next ledge. 10 m of broken terrain to the top.
A. Millar, D. Ryan 07/07/2000
Wise Owl Soul E1 5a 30m
Excellent varied route, also on "The Bastion". Start as for "Beautiful Barry", then from ledge at 4m,
traverse left across slab using underclings and make a thin move around onto large sloping ledge.
Cross ledge to bottom of obvious fine corner 3m left of "Beautiful Barry". Climb corner with increasing
difficulty and finish up vegetated ledges.
A. Millar, D. Ryan 07/07/2000