1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A Climbers guide to
Gola Island
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Twin Cave Buttress Area 4
Main Walls 6
Narrow Zawn 14
Gripple Wall 17
Mhachaire na nGall Walls 18
Owey Wall 22
Island Wall 23
Island Zawn 24
Binatoke Back Wall 26
Binatoke SW Wall 27
Binatoke NE Wall 28
Scoilt Uí Dhugáin 31
NW Zawn End Wall 31
NW Zawn Area 32
Inland Crag 38
Easter Wall 40
John’s Wall 43
South West Corner 44
South Walls 46
Torglass Island 49
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Getting onto Gola island is by ferry from Magheragallan Pier in the summer months. The daily Gola
ferry is ran by Sabba Curran (+353 (0) 872245881) and as the Gola pier is tidal it is always best to
give him a call to book a sailing prior to leaving home.
The best accommodation on the island is wild camping at the large sandy beach on the west side of
the island. There is a mains water tap at the pier where you came off the ferry but everything else you
will have to bring with you.
On you first arrival on Gola it is highly recommended you take a wee stroll around the island to
acquaint yourself with the island’s lay out. By using the map at the top of this page and the individual
crag topo’s all the crags at easily found.
The crags are listed from The Twin cave/Main walls area working our way back to the campsite and
then from the Twin cave/Main wall area working away from the campsite. To find the main walls area
simply walk for 500m along the cliff tops on your right as you face the sea from the campsite, until you
come to a huge zawn facing out to open sea you are now standing on the top of the main walls. 
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Twin Cave Buttress Area
Directions: This area covers the southeast facing walls beyond the Main Walls area. The first two
routes require an abseil to a wave washed ledge left of a large recess. Both routes climb the western
wall of the recess, where there is a large overlap towards the seaward end.
Map ref: B759265
The Cauldron Beneath S 4a 9m
Takes the crack to the left of the overlap. Start directly below the overlap, or else traverse in from the
right, depending on how wet your feet are. Medium cams protect a single hard high step, which leads
to huge happy holds.
S. McMullan, R. Laffan 03/06/96
Metric Tonn HS 4a 9m
Climb up below the overlap as before, and then head out rightwards cleaning the barnacles off your
boots before committing yourself to lay past the overlap on its right. Again medium friends, and a
small wire prove useful.
R. Laffan, S. McMullan 03/06/96
For the next routes, abseil down the deep corner of The Plagiarist, which has a jammed block at the
top. It is also possible to traverse in from the seaward (SW) end at low tide (Severe).
Old Salt S 4a 9m
From the base of the abseil, scramble easily 4m to the left. This route takes the crack passing to the
left of the overlap above into the easier groove above.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn 02/06/96
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Plagiarist HS 4b 9m
This takes the line of the main corner which you abseiled, starting beneath the roof at its base. Climb
the wide black crack to the back of the roof. Step rightwards across the face until a breakthrough jam
can be spied. A large hex placed at the lip will prevent the rope being eaten. Continue up the pleasant
ramp and pull over the suspended fang.
S. McMullan, P. Breen 02/06/96
For the next three routes on this wall, abseil down Kept Woman to a ledge that curves out to a point.
You can belay in a niche on its sheltered side when the tide or swell is big. No matter which route you
do, the situation of this ledge is great!
Kept Woman D 20m ***
From a good ledge to the right of the corner, there is a prominent series of slanting cracks running
leftwards to the top of the corner. Enjoyable climbing up these in a great situation leads to the crux
exit past the jammed block.
D. Flynn, R. Laffan 02/06/96
Right of the last route there is an impressive clean wall with a large square cut cave to its right which
is only really visible after abseiling. The next routes are on this wall.
Asgard E1 5b 24m ***
Starts from the same ledge as Kept Woman and climbs the first crack on this wall to meet a triangular
overhang at its right hand end. Climb the crack on good jams (Crux) to the overhang. One hard move
up right of the overhang leads to good jugs out on the left. Pull across onto the easier upper slab that
is climbed to the top.
M. Daly, S. McMullan
Cois Farraige HVS 5a 24m ***
Climbs crack up the wall right of Asgard until it meets the easier upper slab. Continue up this to the
top. Sustained and well protected.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 02/06/96
Cois Tra E1 5b 24m
The crack right of Cois Farraige. Abseil to the small break at sea level in the centre of the wall. Take
a semi hanging belay. Climb the curving crack to the top.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 06/06/96
Chicken Shit VS 4c 24m
Start from the same belay as Cois Tra. Climb into niche and follow to overhang. Climb this on the left
on big jugs. Proceed with haste past a large ledge and heavily "chalked" area and climb the left
slanting groove to the top. Please ensure to check for nesting Cormorants.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 06/07/96
Beal na Blath E2 5c
Start from the bottom right hand side of the wall right of Chicken Shit. Abseil to a ledge a few feet
above sea level. Belay on the abseil rope. Climb the wall leftwards on positive holds to a good ledge
and runners. Climb the crack above (crux) which leads to a square cut ledge. Finish by a mantle shelf.
M. Daly, S. McMullan 21/09/96
Morocco E3/E4 5c/6a 25m
This route climbs the arête and wall left of Pride of All. From the platform climb the black wall to a
large ledge on the left, continue up arête on good flakes until forced right onto the wall, gain a
groove on the left [ protection ]and follow this groove and crack to the top.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan June 1997
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Pride Of All E3 6a 25m
Start under the large "table" platform. Climb the wall on small holds and gain height using the corner
on the right. At the wide section of the corner (No. 3.5 friend) move left to gain the sharp flake. Pull
across to reach a small foothold. Climb the overhanging finger crack to top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity (2 rest points) 16/06/96
Jolly hockey sticks E4 6b 25m
Start directly below the big overhang, climb up to the corner below overhang, climb corner (crux) then
climb overhang and to the top.
A. Sarhan, J. Gernon summer 99
Unnamed route E4 6c 25m
The route climbs a very direct line up the wall between Pride of All and Fortune's Arete. Start just left
of Fortune's Arete, climb the wall to a prominent flake crack and up this to a ledge. Continue direct
keeping the big overhang to your left, to attain the huge ledge below the top. From there, finish by
climbing the obvious short leftwards slanting crack to the top.
N. Colton and M. Doyle 18/09/05
Fortune's Arête E2 5b 25m
Takes the crack system and Arête at the right end of Twin Cave Buttress. Start beneath the crack
just left of the Arête, gaining this from the left. Follow this keeping left of the Arête until a narrow ledge
at two-thirds height is traversed to gain the Arête proper. Continue up this on easier ground.
A. Anderson, C. Bull
Atlantic Storm E3 6a 25m
Mostly HVS with one hard sequence. Climb the wide crack to the right of the arete. Continue through
a bulge till the crack disappears. Using a handhold on the face above move left to get established at
the base of two thin parallel cracks. (Friend 0 useful). A hard move up and the cracks widen. Follow
these more easily to the top.
P. Breen, P. Harrington
Flake Out VS 5a 25m **
Mostly easy climbing with the crux at the start. Start below a wide crack right of the arete (crux).
Before reaching the wide crack move right to the base of a wide groove system. Climb the left hand
side of this to the top.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 29/06/96
Ten Thirty S 25m
The route follows the rib at the right hand side of the large ledge. Climb the black rib to the top. Poor
protection.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 15/06/96
Main Walls
Directions: This is the main climbing area so far. Descent is by abseil or descend the Diff staircase at
the southern end of the wall, which descends in a northerly direction. At low tide, it is possible to
scramble as far as the zawn with the twin cave at the left (northern) end of this section of the crag,
where there is a very steep cracked wall, which contains the first four routes.
Map ref: B759265
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Gathering Momentum E5 5c 25m
The left-hand crack system on the steep wall. Start on the left end of the ledges where they begin to
disappear, about 6m right of the cave. Climb the crack system to a faint corner/groove. Continue up
this then leave it to finish slightly rightward, avoiding the obvious softer left hand finish.
R. Browner, S. Coughlan 03/08/1996
Central Route E4 6a 25m
This route takes the central line in the face, left of Gyration. Start at the wide, hanging groove capped
by a narrow chimney. Climb the groove and chimney, with increasing difficulty, to gain crack systems
proper. Continue up leftward-trending cracklines strenuously but on good jams to finish.
K. Pyke, A. Anderson 25/08/97
Gyration E4 6a 25m
The leftward trending crack on the right-hand end of the steep wall. Start on the right hand end of the
steep wall beside a large corner. Climb the crack past a bulge to easier ground above. (The hard start
can be avoided by stepping on to the route from the corner 5m above).
R. Browner, S. Coughlan 04/08/96
Hyperglide E3 6a 25m
The right hand crack on the steep wall. Start in the back of the dark corner down on the ledges.
Bridge easily up the corner until it becomes too wide to bridge. From here swing left into the crack,
continue up this to finish. (It is probably possible to escape rightward towards the top).
R. Browner, S. Coughlan 03/08/96
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
To the right of this steep wall the cliff forms a left facing wall the following two routes climb the left and
right side of this wall.
The Reaper S 4a 25m
Approx 3m from the corner in the dark recess wall, left of "Gun Runner," climb the stepped crack to
gain a good ledge just below the summit. Step right on this ledge and top out onto a large fin of rock.
I. Miller, C. Gleeson 03/06/12
Gun Runner E3 5c 25m
Traverse along a horizontal fault into the base of the crack. Climb the crack to gain (by a difficult
move) a jug to the right. Continue using mainly layback technique to finish up Cormorant Crack.
M. Daly, S. McMullan
To the right of this left facing wall the cliff turns sea ward.
Cormorant Crack HS 4b 25m
Follow the Run of the Arrow corner for a few moves, then out left up a prominent crack onto the wall.
D. Doyle, M. McInerney
Run of the Arrow VS 4b 25m ***
This route takes the corner and upper groove for its full length. Sustained and well protected.
P. Harrington, A. Romero
Ceol na Mara E2 5c 25m ***
Climb Run of the Arrow for 5 metres then move right to the arete and continue up this to large ledge.
At the right hand end of this ledge a thin crack splits the face above. Climb this to another ledge.
Follow crack more easily to the top. At high tide, your second can belay on a ledge in Run of the
Arrow above the point where you move to the arête.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 02/06/96
To the right of this, there is a wall with a prominent cave/recess running to half height. The next route
takes the crack line left of this cave.
Tir na nog E3 5c ***
Climb the crack strenuously to a poor rest at mid-height. Continue with difficulty to reach a jug on the
right and better rest. Continue to the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 02/06/96
Right of Tir na nOg there is a large cave running to half crag height.
Brass Monkey E3 5c
Start below the large cave in the main wall left of Galway Hooker. Climb the left wall of the cave
(no.11 hex in crack at the back of the cave). Pull up left around the flake and gain good ledge on the
wall. Climb the twin cracks and groove to the top.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 29/06/96
Galway Hooker E4 6a 25m **
This route takes the next crack right of the cave. Climb strenuously up the crack and gain a ledge at
10m by a difficult move (one arm rest). Continue by pinching a flake and then poor jams to gain a
small niche and rest (thread runner). Climb steeply on rounded holds to top.
M. Daly & P. McGarrity 15/06/96
Shagamorant HVS 5a 25m *
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
This climbs the corner at the right-hand end of the wall. Follow the corner to the bulge at 5m. Steep
bridging reaches a good hold on the right wall. Pull up onto a small ledge above, then follow corner
again, staying mostly with the cracks on the right of the flakes in the corner. The rock in the upper
section requires care.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn 02/06/96
Bull Root HVS 5a 25m
Start on the large ledge as for Shagamorant. Step off the right side of ledge, and, using the flake,
climb to a higher ledge and continue up the crack above to the top.
P. McGarrity, M. Daly 02/06/96
Snow Desert HS 4b 25m **
Climb the obvious cracks and grooves in the middle of this wall.
P. Harrington, A. Romero
The following routes are on the next wall right facing the sea.
Constitution E4 6a ***
The crack Left of Ship Wrecked. Climb steep wide crack to good fist jam below thin finger-crack.
Steep fingerlocks and holds lead to a rest. From here move left to Arete below top bulge.
P. Breen, P. Harrington 30/06/96
Ship Wrecked E2 5b 15m **
This route takes the prominent crack with an obvious sentry box in the middle. Easy climbing leads to
a thread runner at the base of the sentry box. Climb past the sentry box (crux) and continue up
grooves and past old sling to the top.
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
P. Breen, P. Harrington, S. MacGearailt 02/09/95
Destitution E2 5b 15m ***
This route takes the crack just right of Ship Wrecked. Climb crack on good holds to below niche.
From here, move right and steeply up a diagonally rising flake to ledge. Continue up grooves to top.
P. Breen, S. McMullan, P. Harrington
Destitution Direct E2 5c 15m **
Follow Destitution to the niche move left to climb bulge using layoffs and flared cracks.
J. Hawkins, P O Farrell
Restitution E3 5c 15m *
The wide crack right of Destitution. Climb the steep crack bridging the lower section. Continue up
wide crack to gain good hold (crux) Finish up easier grooves to the top.
P. Breen, P. Harrington (1 Rest point) C. Torrans C. Sheridan FFA
To the right of this area are three left-facing corners, followed by a fourth corner split by an arete to
give a further two groove lines.
Cornered Rats HVS 5b 15m ***
This route takes the leftmost corner line. A weird experience
M. McInerney, D. Doyle
Castaway E2 5c 15m
The second left facing corner. Climb lower corner easily to base of second corner at mid height.
Climb left face to gain large ledge at the top of corner (crux). Continue up the face to the top
P. Breen, S. McMullan, P. Harrington
Sundance VS 4c 15m **
The third left facing corner. Harder than it looks!
P. Harrington, P. Breen
What's Left E1 5b 20m
Arete and north facing wall right of Sundance.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 29/06/96
Lunch Money HS 4b 15m *
Next there is a large corner split in two by an arete. This route takes the corner groove to the left of
the arete. Start below and to the left of the corner, and climb to a ledge at half height. Finish up main
corner to top.
M. McInerney, D. Doyle
Golan Heights VS 4c 15m **
This route climbs the corner groove to the right of the arete. Start in a short corner below the arete.
Climb this corner with awkward step right into main corner groove at mid-height. Continue up this
(delicate or strenuous) to exit through niche on skyline on right.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn
Leopard HVS 5a 15m **
Climb the left-hand side of the wall left of Black Cleft for a few metres until good protection can be
found. Trend slightly right on good holds until a ledge is reached with two vertical cracks above it.
Finish up the right hand crack.
P. Harrington, P. Breen
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
Mirror Image E1 5b 15m *
Start 2 metres right of leopard. Climb wall to a ledge. Move left crossing Leopard and climb wide
crack to the top.
P. McGarrity, M. Daly 02/06/1996
Shortie HVS 5a 15m *
This route climbs the thin crack on the left wall of the Black Cleft. Start up the cleft at a point level
with a small overhang. Move left to the crack (reaching holds above the overhang from the gully) and
climb it to the top.
P. Harrington, P. Breen July 1996 (direct start: eliminate, unclimbed and extreme!)
Black Cleft D 15m **
Climbs the obvious black cleft right of Shortie.
S.MacGearailt (solo).
The next routes are to the right of 'Black Cleft', starting at the wall where there is a square roof.
The Last Oasis HS 4b 15m *
The route starts below the roof and trends leftwards. Climb grooves to reach a ledge and a left facing
wall, then up easier crack on the far left.
P. Harrington, A. Romero, M. McInerney
Thug VS 5a 15m
Start as for The Last Oasis. Follow it to the ledge then instead of moving left to the easier crack make
a strenuous move using the first crack to gain the top. A well protected one move wonder.
P. Harrington, P. Breen
An Toileanach E3 6a 15m *
Start below the square roof, climbing to its left with another overhang at mid-height. Climb the steep
wall using the edge on the right and gain the overhang with a difficult move. Climb the overhang on
good jams and gain the groove above (crux). Climb this with difficulty to the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 02/06/1996
Born Again Climber E1 5b 15m **
This route climbs the steep wall immediately right of the square roof, through an alcove at mid-height.
Climb the crack with hard moves to pass a small overhang and gain the comfortable alcove. Make
committing moves up and right, then trend back left on ever-rounder holds to the top.
S. MacGearailt, T. O'Brien 02/09/95
Seamonsters HVS 5b *
Start two cracks right of Born Again Climber. Climb up large holds to gain a large ledge beneath an
overhung niche. Chicken out leftwards on this ledge using undercuts and finish up the tricky corner
crack.
S. McMullan, P. Breen
Seamonsters Direct E1 5c *
Direct finish for Sea Monsters. Climb Seamonsters to the ledge then continue directly up overhung
niche.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 29/06/96
Don't Pay The Ferryman HVS 5a **
Takes the next crack right of Seamonsters Direct. Climb crack to overhang continue through the
overhang and more easily to the top.
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
P. Breen, S. McMullan, P. Harrington
Lonesome Boatman VS 5a 15m **
Climbs crack through next small overhang, featuring a painful handjam. Good holds available to the
right, if you bring them with you.
P. Breen, P. Harrington
Waterworld S 15m *
This climbs the next arete on the right, at the edge of a deep recess.
P. Harrington, P. Breen
Deep Recess D 15m **
Climbs the right side of the Deep Recess.
D. Doyle (solo)
On the wall between the recess and the descent route, live the following four routes.
Not CQR VS 4c 15m *
Start at the left end of the wall. Follow a crack, just right of the arete, to a reasonable hold just below
the horizontal niche. A hard move gains a good hold on the wall just above the niche, then pull up and
left into a groove just left of the arete. Finish more easily up this to the top.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn
Anchors Away HVS 5a 15m *
This route takes the line of the crack towards the centre of the wall. Follow a line of positive holds,
just left of the crack, to gain a horizontal break and another vertical crack. Follow this to the top.
P. Breen, P. Harrington
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
Scabbro VS 4c 15m **
This takes the next crack right. Climb steeply up the crack to good holds and a rest below the squarecut
block. Launch up to a sloping ledge, which is better on the right, and finish directly above on
slopers.
S. McMullan, P. Breen, P. Harrington
Hexes from Heaven S 4a 15m
Climb the steep crack and groove, which starts at the base of the descent route. Finish by the arete
on left.
S. McMullan, P. Breen, R. Laffan
Descent route D 15m
Follows the obvious right-trending staircase to top of crag.
Big Boots D 15m
Takes the ramp right of the descent route.
S. McMullan (solo)
Further right, at the most southerly end of the Main Face, there is a large flat platform, normally
accessible at all states of tide.
Seventh Wave of a Seventh Wave VS 5a 15m *
This is the first crack on the left of the large square platform. Climb up the thin leftward trending crack
with the crux close to the ground. The crack is easier than it looks as is protected by small wires. Gain
the ledge and continue on through a notch exit directly above on monster holds.
S. McMullan, P. Breen 15/06/96
The Good, The Bad and The Ugly E1 5b 15m *
Climb the obvious crack (steep) with a rest on the two intermediate ledges. Finally launch out on the
top wall to climb through niche above, just left of overlap.
M. McInerney, D. Doyle, R. Laffan
At the east end of this wall, there is another deep recess just before the cliff turns into Narrow Zawn
The Devil made me do it. VS 4c 15m
Takes the 2 corners 3 metres to the left of "The Beautiful". Start on the inside one, bridging to the
main slab, then moving right to the outside corner. Continue to the top of the block.. Plenty of poor
friable rock here. Finish as per "The Beautiful.
G. Galligan, M. Duignan, A. Moloney 05/08/06
The Beautiful HS 4b 15m *
Climb the crack and corner in the back left of the recess.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn
Mind Games E4 6a 15m
Climbs the short overhanging wall at the back of the recess. Belay as for The Beautiful. Step over to
the other side and climb up easily until level with a small overlap. With strenuous moves bridge left
onto the wall and make a couple of moves to reach a good hold on the left. Make a series of technical
moves up on small flat holds to reach good edges below the top. (Good 1.5 Friend in right crack).
Final pulls over rounded holds bring you thankfully to the belay.
P. McArthur, E. Cooper (3 rest points) 29 June 96
To the right of this recess, there is a stepped arete forming the west entrance to Narrow Zawn. The
final route ion this wall climbs this arete.
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Feast of Cana VD 15m *
Climb the arete and rightwards easily over slabs. At half height climb over jutting blocks, then up
more easily to the top.
D. Flynn, R. Laffan
Narrow Zawn
Directions: Approx 25m back towards the campsite from the top of the main walls is the Narrow Zawn
- a long, narrow zawn with a large cave at the landward end. The routes in this zawn require an abseil
approach.
Map ref: B759265
Bodhran VS 4c 14m
In Narrow Zawn. Same belay as for Black Thunder. Climb crack as for Black Thunder to ledge. Climb
crack in left wall to top.
P. McGarrity, M. Daly 15/06/96
Black Thunder HVS 5a 14m
Start a few metres in from the mouth of the zawn, on the west side. The route takes a corner here.
Abseil to lower ledge at low tide and take a belay here, or semi-hanging stance a few metres up,
depending on the tide. Climb the rightward leaning black corner to where it steepens and bridge up
(crux) to a flake on the right. Continue up corner to the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 03/06/96
Eddies No. 1 E4 6a 14m
Belay as for The Green Pool, or take a semi-hanging belay at a good crack on the left when the sea 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
is high. Traverse past the base of a good crack (The Green Pool) to the next thin crack. Follow this
passing a small overlap and then some hard moves to a short corner. Follow the arete of this corner
with interest to the top. (Small wires for protection).
E. Cooper, P. McArthur 30/06/96
The Green Pool E1 5b 14m ***
In Narrow Zawn halfway along the western wall there is a corner crack with an overlap at mid height.
Belay on a good ledge at low tide. Climb the crack to the overlap. Surmount this with difficulty (crux)
and climb corner to top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 15/06/96
The Fledgling E2 5c 14m *
Abseil to the same ledge as The Green Pool. From the right hand end of the ledge climb a thin crack
(0 friend) to an overlap (3.5 friend). Climb this to a niche. Continue by a hard move to the large ledge.
Climb the crack to gain a ledge on the arete. Savour the atmosphere as you contemplate the steep
crack finish. Leave the security of the ledge and climb steeply to the top.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 07/07/96
Choss Lynam E1 5b 14m
Climbs the obvious groove/crack line just left of Gearrcach. Start from a ledge at the foot of the crack.
Climb straight to the top, the name of the route derives from the last 4m, which are loose, crumbly and
dangerous so be careful.
P. Owens, J. O'Reilly. 29/03/97
Gearrcach E1 5b 14m
Abseil to ledges right of and lower than The Fledgling. Climb the crack to the top.
C. Sheridan, C. Torrans 29/07/96
Buzz Light Year HS 4b 14m **
Start as for Gearrcach. Climb the groove on the right. Nice situations.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 29/06/96
Classic Tricouni VS 4b 14m
This takes a corner about halfway along the western side of Narrow Zawn. Abseil to a good ledge
and climb the corner to the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 03/06/96
The east wall of the zawn is lower and provides some easier routes than the west.
Surge Pool HS 4b 12m
Same start as for Kindergarten Slab except traverse left for 3m to next crack and continue up crack
to top
S. MacGearailt, D. Doyle 30/06/96
Kindergarten Slab VS 4b 12m
Abseil to small orange ledge left of overhanging corner. (Alternatively could traverse in from ledge
below overhanging corner). Climb crack directly above to top.
D. Doyle, S. MacGearailt 30/06.96
Return of the Native S 4a 12m
Abseil onto ledge below overhanging corner just right of cracked wall. Step left to avoid overhang and
continue up crack to top.
S. MacGearailt, D. Doyle 30/06/96
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
The next routes are on East Side End Wall Abseil to the large platform at the eastern end of the
mouth of Narrow Zawn.
Slim Pickens and Lady Graceful VS 4b 10m
Abseil to Triangular Block. Climb wall left of leftmost crack on good holds. Swing left to mantelshelf
on ledge. Easily to top.
J. McCann, P. Roach 03/06/96.
Twister HVS 5a 10m
Steep sustained climbing up the thin crack at the left edge to make a relieved move to a large ledge
out left and an easier finish. The last direct moves would be quite daring, at probably E2.
S. MacGearailt, T.O'Brien 02/09/1995
Sunny Side Up VS 4c 10m
Starts off the same triangular ledge as Twister. Abseil onto the ledge. Climb the crack and wall 1m
right of the obvious wet, wide crack/groove. From the ledge step directly onto the wall and climb
straight up on small positive holds to the start of the crack. Follow the crack with continuing interest to
the top.
P. McArthur, R. Young 15 /06/96
Incut/Little Gem HVS 5a 12m
From the same belay ledge, traverse right on good holds, and then straight up the wall on beautiful
holds.
T. O'Brien, S. MacGearailt 02/09/95
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
John McCann's No. 1 VS 4c 12m
On the right side of the wall about 2m from the end, there is a leftward trending crack.
J. McCann, M. McCormick 14/06/96
Gripple Wall
Directions: Approx half way between the campsite and the main walls area is Gripple Wall. Approach
is either by abseil to a ledge system at base of wall, or alternatively, at lowish tide and with a calm
sea, it is possible to scramble down over blocky ledges starting about 50m west of Gripple Wall.
Gripple Wall itself is the easy angled slab generously provided with cracks and holds which trend up
leftwards.
Map ref: B763271
Gripple Arete S 4a 20m
At the left (West) edge of Gripplewall, and around the corner, climb slanting edges to gain deep
corner, which is bridged to the top.
C. Quinn, B. Watts July 2003
Muin na Muice D 20m
Start at the middle of the wall. Follow the lower line of cracks up leftwards to exit at the top left of the
wall.
D. Flynn, R. Laffan 02/06/96
Gripple Wall VD
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
This climbs the cracks to the right of the wall exiting towards the top right of the wall.
B. Johnston, M. Pailing 12/06/93
Jean A Cheval S 4a 20m *
Classic chimney climb to the right of Gripple Wall. Good situations.
J. McCann, B. Forde, P. Roach 02/06/96
Sea Eagle HS 20m
Start as for Jean A Cheval and move right up into diedre on wall.
B. Johnston, T. Philson, A. Tees 17/06/95
Warden of Gola E1 5b 20m
Start 1 m right of Jean A Cheval at a thin seam through an overlap. Climb through overlap, trend
leftwards on flakes then up and right to niche. Finish either directly or by Who Gets the Credit.
K. Stewart, R. Kernan, 13/7/17
Who Gets the Credit? HVS 5a 20m
Up short wall to ledge. Up to second ledge. Climb overhang above to an easier finish.
Ex Eagle/Big Trip/Island life VS 4c 20m
This climbs the centre of the next wall. Start at the middle of the ledge, which runs along the base of
the wall. Good VS climbing with a sustained start up some jamming cracks to a shallow fluted groove
splitting an overlap at 6m. Easier climbing up the groove in the middle of the face to finish.
A. Tees, B. Johnston 17/06/95
Maid of Gola HS 20m **
Closer to the edge, there is a less well defined crack system. Move up parallel to Pride of Gola.
Higher up several alternatives present themselves.
A. Tees, B. Johnston 17 June '95
Pride of Gola S 4a 20m ***
Traverse right from ledge about 2m to reach base of crack, which is climbed through several breaks
to the top. A fantastic route!
A. Tees, B. Johnston 17/06/95
Mhachaire na nGall Walls
Directions: From the campsite walking toward the main crag you find the first small zawn with a stony
beach at its end. Scramble down ledges on the west of the zawn and you come to an east-facing
corner (DidEye and Chinface) with twin cracks on its left (Bootleg). Walking around the cliff base west
you come to another corner facing west (Currach) and finally to a short sea wall with a small shallow
boulder filled zawn below (Walrus Wall).
Map ref: B764271
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
Alan’s Route S 4a 14m
Climb the right trending ramp at the far left of the crag.
A. Tees
Jam Jar VS 4c 12m *
This unusual route takes the obvious vertical flared crack/groove on the left of the crag. Climb it
however possible to the top. Carefully placed friends for protection.
J. Hawkins, P. O'Farrell. 30/03/97
Driver E1 5b 12m
Climbs the leftward trending crack up the middle of the wall 3 meters left of 'All the Power'. Start at a
semi hanging belay on the ledge directly below All the Power. Make balancey then strenuous moves
up the leftward trending crack to gain a good ledge. Finish directly up the wall above and into a deep
recess.
K. Kilroy, P. Reid 05/06/10
All The Power HVS 5a 12m
Climbing the dog leg crack 2m left of Wendy Raindrops. Protect lower section with Cams and loads
of protection on the upper leftward section of the crack.
P. Reid, K. Kilroy 05/06/10
Wendy Raindrops VD
Traversing in from the right side of the seawall along the terrace, a large hold ridden groove is
encountered.
S. McMullan (solo) 6 July '96
20
www.uniqueascent.ie
Currach V.Diff 8m
Further along this ledge there is a west-facing corner. The route takes this corner.
M.Daly (solo) 2 June '96
The Golan Lament VS 4c 9m
The arȇte 4 m right of Currach, climbed on its left side. Good gear in the breaks. Feels exposed!
R. Kernan, L. Davison 13/6/14
Horizontal Heaven VS 5a 8m
On the south facing wall between Bootleg and Wendy Raindrops. Climb the lower wall directly to
reach horizontal breaks and finish with an under cling/mantle.
P. Reid, K. Kilroy 05/06/10
21
www.uniqueascent.ie
You Forgot The Battery Mummy VS 4c 9m
About 20m left of DidEye and Chinface is a large roof with a chimney at its left-hand end. Left of this
chimney is a short overhanging route following a series of flakes to a green v-groove between the wall
and a block. Climb these, finishing in the groove left of the block. Pumpy.
R. Kernan, C. Gilmour 05/06/12
Feeling the Altitude HS 4b 8m
Climb the steep wide crack round the corner left of Bootleg.
K. McGuire, R. Whelan 13/05/16
Whoops Jonny HS 4a 8m
The arȇte just left of Bootleg. Slopey and interesting at the grade.
S. Grew, A McCalman 2015
Bootleg S 4a 8m
This route is on a wall just left of the first corner. Climb the left trending jam crack to top.
M. Daly (solo) 02/06/96
The Speed of Dampness VS 4b 8m
Fist sized crack 10 m left of Bootleg. Jam up the crack, finishing up easier ground.
R. Kernan, L. Davison, 13/6/14
DidEye and Chinface S 4a 8m
The east-facing corner viewable from the beach climb the corner with increasing difficulty.
S.McMullan (solo) 02/06/96
22
www.uniqueascent.ie
Speed Of Darkness HS 4a 8m
Climb the slightly overhanging vertical crack 3m to the right of the corner directly. Sustained
A. Isa, M. Cooley 02/06/08
You Promised Me Jugs VS 4b 8m
Starts just right of The Speed of Dampness. Steep moves off the ground lead to a groove. Sustained.
L. Davison, R. Kernan, S McCaffrey, 13/6/14
Black Blood Arete HVS 5b 8m
Climbs the steep left hand side of the short curving arete (incut at its base) visible from the beach,
just right of The Speed of Darkness. Start directly below the arete reaching for the first good break,
launch up leftwards through an initial crux section and up the wall above. Well protected. Mats used
on F.A
K. Kilroy, S. Black 11/07/2011
The Mothman VS 5a 7m
The right hand side of Blood Black Arete. Start directly below the arete as for BBA and then launch
up and right through a crux section to follow the cracked and broken wall with trepidation to the top.
Mats used on F.A
K. Kilroy, Benoit 11/07/2011
Owey Wall
Directions: The next area described is the broken ground on the far side of the Twin Caves Buttress.
There are a few short routes here, along ledges which face south. From the top at the eastern end, it
is possible to scramble easily to a ledge system at mid-height. This can be followed (westwards)
almost to its end (where the cliffs turn to face Tornamullane and become "Island Wall"). Just before
this, there is a large square corner, which faces southwest.
Map ref: B758272
Bellydancer E1 5b
Start at the Western end of the ledge system mentioned in the introduction to Owey Wall. Climb onto
a block and step down to a stance below the right-hand end of the slab lying beneath the large
overhang. Make a difficult move up onto the lip of the slab using a vertical crack and traverse left to a
foothold. Move out left from beneath the overhang (crux) and climb the edge to a belay. A climb
requiring steadiness in both leader and second.
T. O'Neill, G. Moss 30/04/00
Giant Steps VD
Start as for above. Climb onto the block and trend up right over blocks and ledges to the top.
T. O'Neill, G. Moss 30/04/00
Pow-row HVS 5a
Start 3m left of Balor. Climb easily over blocks to the base of a crack sloping up left across the steep
wall. Strenuous moves up the crack to a ledge and finish as for Giant Steps.(Note: The vertical crack
between Pow-row and Balor has repulsed several parties and is, as far as I'm aware, still unclimbed.)
F. Power, B. Rowe 30/04/00
Balor/Gooseberry HVS 5a 9m
This route climbs the corner direct. Climb the block at the base of the corner on its right. Steeply
climb the corner past the bulge to good holds at a seemingly secure block. Finish more easily
leftwards.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn 01/06/96
23
www.uniqueascent.ie
Gola Digger HS 4b
Start around the corner to the right from Balor, at the foot of the slab. Climb the slab near its left edge
to a stance below the headwall. Up this trending left.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 30/04/00
Cuckoo S
Start below the big overhangs to the right of Fools Staircase. Climb a short corner and move left to a
large ledge. Climb the corner immediately left of the overhang.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 30/04/00
The Slot HVS 5a 9m
Start as for Cuckoo. Climb the corner and move right to a ledge. Make an awkward move up onto the
projecting block and climb the narrow chimney/crack through the overhangs, moving right at the top.
T. O'Neill, G. Moss 30/04/00
Fools Staircase HVS 5a 25m
Descend to easy angled slabs west of Twin Caves Area and traverse for approximately 50m to area
where there are 4 obvious steps to top (Just after big overhangs/roofs). Climb steps to top. Third step
awkward mantleshelf. Climb final step via crack with awkward finish.
S. MacGearailt, D. Doyle, R. Toal
Thin Lines HS 4b 9m
To the left of Dilly Dalying there is a wall with horizontal breaks and a flaky vertical crack. Start in the
middle of the wall, left of a crack. Climb the wall, using the breaks, then move up and right to finish
just left of vertical crack.
T. O'Neill, S. Daly, G. Moss 30/04/00
Dilly Dalying HS 4b 9m
Climb the obvious right-angled corner around to the left of the Heffalump wall.
S. Daly, C. Murray 30/04/00
Heffalump VS 5a 9m
From where you first scramble to the ledge system, there is a short slab in front of you. This route
takes the wall to its left.
Climb the prominent crack to the right of wall to the crux at the top where you struggle valiantly to pull
over the rounded top edge or else sacrifice some fingers to the painful crack.
R. Laffan, D. Flynn 01/06/96
Heffaheart HS 4a 9m
The groove just inside the left edge of the Heffalump wall.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 01/05/00
Heffago S 9m
The flake filled crack just right of Heffaheart.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 30/04/00
Heffabreak S 9m
The wide crack 1m right of Heffago.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 01/05/00
Conundrum VD 9m
Climbs the slab to the right of Heffalump wall.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill 30/04/00
Island Wall
24
www.uniqueascent.ie
Directions: Steep clean 25m high wall between the western tip of the Maol murrinagh peninsula and
Tor na mBallÃ¡n. Three routes have been done here so far. Access is by abseil with hanging belays.
Looking from the island (Not easily done!) two dips break 4m into the top of the wall. Two routes (no
details as yet) start beneath the left (north) dip while 30 Million Toy Trucks starts below the right
(south) dip.
Map ref: B757272
Island Wall Traverse E2 5c
Scramble to ledges 10m above sea level on the right of the wall (facing out). Traverse easily right at
the same level until a vertical crack is reached (6m). Descend awkwardly for 1m then continue right to
reach better holds. Climb the wall above trending rightwards to finish just left of a small corner.
G. Huxter, G. Kirk 26/08/97
30 Million Toy Trucks E1 5b
Abseil to the middle of three rightward trending short ledges. (Hanging belay on top step). Climb the
most direct line of weakness on good holds with good gear.
J. Gillmor, W. Walshaw June 96
Island Zawn
Directions: The indent in the coastline level with the north end of Tornamullane Island. It has a large
cave at the back and climbing on both its walls. Incidentally, this cave is the other entrance to the Cois
Farraige cave at Twin Caves Buttress!
Map ref: B757273
Access to the first three climbs is gained by scrambling down well to the north of the cave and
scrambling back along a ledge system about 2m above the high water mark to a point about 10m left
of the cave. Near the cave is the very obvious Cormy Corner.
25
www.uniqueascent.ie
Hugh's No 1 HVS 5a 25m
Start below two short corners, one above the other, each topped by a good ledge. Climb the corners,
the second of which provides the crux, move left and follow the deep crack to the top.
H. Sharkey, G. Moss, T. O'Neill 15/06/96
The Ancient Mariner VS 4c 25m
Start 2m right of above, below a ramp with a steep wall on its left. The ramp runs up the full height of
the cliff, tapering as it does so and can be seen easily from the top of the western side of the zawn.
Climb the ramp to the top.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill, H. Sharkey 15/06/1996
Albatross VS 4b 25m
Start 1.5m right of The Ancient Mariner below a crack line. Climb the crack on good holds, with a
steepening near the top.
T. O'Neill, H. Sharkey, G. Moss 15/06/96
Cormy Corner E2 5b 25m ***
The obvious square-cut corner to the left of the cave. Abseil or scramble down to the base of the
route at medium or low tide. Climb the corner by bridging and laybacking to an overhang. Move right
under this and continue up an obvious groove. Strenuous and sustained. Belay on a big boulder.
P. Keane, J, Gilmore.
This is the dark north-facing wall right of the cave in Island Zawn. This wall is broken by an obvious
left-trending crack (Climbed by W. Walshaw). To the left of this obvious crack, two smaller cracks split
the wall from left to right. The rightmost of these is Super Scary Slash. Although a number of routes 
26
www.uniqueascent.ie
have been done in this area, we do not have descriptions for all of them. Abseil to ledges below the
routes.
Martin's Route E2 5b
Start from the left-hand and lowest part of the ledge at low tide Climb the left-hand side of the wall to
gain a ledge below the steep leftmost crack. Climb this crack and protect it with cunning and guile.
Pull out onto the arête and climb the easy angled slab to the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 15/09/96
Damp Paws HVS 5b
To the left of Super Scary Slash the wall becomes more recessed with an overhanging corner, before
the headwall becomes more vertical. Climb easily until fully beneath the overhanging corner to the
left. A tricky move left gains the headwall and an easier finish.
J.Gillmor (Solo) June '96
Super Scary Slash VS 4c
Climb the right most of the left to right trending cracks.
J.Gilmore (Solo) June 96
Binatoke Bay
Directions: This is the long bay to the north west of the Maol Murrinagh headland.
Map ref: B759273
27
www.uniqueascent.ie
Binatoke Back Wall
Buena Vista Social Club E3 5c 45m
Bold face climbing with an excellent crack to finish. Abseil down to ledges just below the triangular
overhang, the route takes the wall left of the overhang.
Scramble up blocks to the base of the wall, climb the wall passing a peg on the left (2 poor rp
placements above the peg). Continue up to a good foothold on the right edge and better pro. Make an
awkward traverse right to the corner crack which is followed to the top.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan , P. McGarrity June 97
No way out E3 5c 45m
Climb the wall right of the triangular overhang. Climb the cracks and corner just right of the overhang
until a hard traverse right to a flat ledge, climb the wall above to jammed blocks and finish up thin
cracks.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan , P. McGarrity June 97
Binatoke SW Wall
The Fan HVS 5a 35m
On the west wall of Binatoke inlet, there are four symmetrically shaped corners. This route takes the
second from left of these. Good climbing in an exposed situation on excellent granite. Abseil to slabs
below the corners. Climb the slabs easily to the corner. Up this to the top.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 6/07/96
Lynx HVS 5a 35m
28
www.uniqueascent.ie
This is the third corner. Start as for The Fan. Climb the slabs to the corner and follow this to the top.
C. Sheridan, C. Torrans 6/07/96
No.4 Corner HVS 5a 40m
The route takes the fourth corner i.e. the furthest one out from the back of the inlet. Abseil to a good
ledge left of the corner (viewed from above). From the ledge step left and climb the slab on good
holds to the base of a corner. Climb the corner (crux) to the top. Route can also be started from ledge
at sea level under big roof with a leftwards traverse to gain corner: (35+m)
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 01/07/96
Flirting with the Void E2 5c 30m
At the left end of the mother of all roofs is a crack, which runs from the roof to the top. The route
follows this crack. Abseil to a small stance just above the roof. (Alternatively, if you want to wet your
panties and create a new high grade super line, abseil below the roof to ledges which are visible at
low tide). Climb the crack for a few metres until the holds become less positive. A technical move
(crux) leads to easier going until just below the top where another more difficult move is encountered.
Make this and exit. Not strenuous and low in the grade. Good protection.
P. Harrington, P. Breen
Doppler Effect E1 5b 30m
The next crack left of Sidewinder. Abseil to the top of the overlap and take a semi-hanging belay.
Climb the crack to the top.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 30/06/96
Big Jem E1 5b 35m
Start 5m left of Sidewinder (See below). Abseil to a small ledge at low tide and take a semi-hanging
belay. Climb the crack to the overlap and short corner. Surmount this and continue to the top. The
route may also be started as for Sidewinder.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 14/09/96
On the Binatoke west wall, near where it reaches the open sea, there is a belay ledge accessible by
abseil. A number of routes start from here. It is situated approx. 20m along the wall from the open
sea. A flat granite terrace yellow with lichen distinguishes the top. The ledge is tidal but is accessible
for long periods in calm water.
Sidewinder E2 5c 30m
From the ledge described above, climb up and gain a horizontal break that runs for 10m below the
overlap. Follow this leftward and continue beyond the break for 4m by a hard move. Good friend
protection all the way under the overlap.
M. Daly, O. O'Regan 06/06/96
Taz VS 4c
This route takes the deep crack line a few metes right of Sidewinder, Abseil to a small stance at the
lip of the roof, climb the crack to the top.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan June 97
An Seabhach HVS 4c **
An excellent little route with good edges and a perfect crack. Abseil to a small stance above the
overhang and climb the crack to the top
C. Sheridan , C. Torrans June 97
After Thought HVS 5a 20m
29
www.uniqueascent.ie
From the ledge climb up and slightly left to gain a shallow corner and crack system. Follow this to the
top.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 16/07/96
Love Torpedo HVS 5a 20m
Start on the sea level ledge of After Thought step up and right to good ledges below the overlap.
Climb the overlap (crux) with poor small wire protection. A wet crash mat is not too far away however.
Using the left hand square cut layaway and the thin right hand crack gain the top of the pillar. Difficulty
disappears and it's ledges all the way to the top.
S. McMullan, M. Daly Sept 96
Easy Cranking S
At the seaward end of this wall there is a short wall stepped back 5m from the main wall. The route
climbs a line in the centre of the wall. Climb the wall on large jugs to the base of a short corner. Exit
up this.
M. Daly (Solo) 22/09/96
Binatoke NE Wall
Directions: Binatoke is the long bay to the north west of the Maol murrinagh headland. At the seaward
end of this area there is a short vertical wall. The next three routes are located on this wall and are
accessed by scrambling down carefully at its seaward (north) end.
Map ref: B759273
Martin's No 1 E1 5b 15m
30
www.uniqueascent.ie
This climbs an offwidth crack at the left end of the wall. Climb the wall right of the offwidth on small
holds to the overhang. Make a hard move up to reach jugs above the overhang, which are climbed to
the top.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 14/09/96
Stowaway E1 5b 15m
The next crack right and in the centre of the wall. Climb the crack leftwards to a groove. Climb this
and trend rightward up a diagonal crack to finish.
M. Daly, P. McGarrity 14/09/96
Paul's No 1 HVS 5a 15m
The crack 2m right of Stowaway. Climb the crack on good holds. The crux is just below the top.
P. McGarrity, M. Daly 14/09/96
Seaside Groove VD 18m
Climbs the open blocky groove just left of Mental Block. Beware of possible loose stuff near the
top.(Understatement of the year)
P. McArthur (Solo) 16/06/96
Further into the bay, there is a prominent open corner crack, taken by 20 Yards A'Groanin'. The
following routes are described in relation to this.
Mental Block E2 5c 18m
The leftward trending undercut crack is climbed with a committing move to reach good holds and
gear. The crux now involves deciding which of the positive handholds and negative footholds to use.
Rock up right for a Thank God. Proceed rightwards cautiously along a line of flakes to join and finish 
31
www.uniqueascent.ie
as for Westerly.
S. McMullan, P. Breen 30 June '96
Westerly E1 5b 18m
Climb the steep wall and thin crack to the left of 20 Yards A'Groanin'.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 01/06/96
20 Yards A'Groanin' S 18m
The obvious wide crack on the right hand side of the bay.
A. Tees, K. Deery, B. Johnston 12/07/93
Atlantic Shore E1 5b 18m
Climb the wall just right of 20 yds to gain cracks at half-height. Continue up these to the top.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 01/07/96
The Tempest E2 5c 18m
Beneath the overhangs to the right of 20 yds there is a thin crack and right facing groove. Climb this
to get established beneath the overhangs. Continue up and right beneath overhangs to the top.
P. Breen, S. McMullan 01/07/96
Jimmy Gogola HVS 5a 20m
Start on the leftward trending ramp 20m right of 20 yards a groanin'. Climb the ramp which is backed
by a very wide crack. Easy but unprotected. The overhanging corner rears above and with a single
tricky move to get established, excellent holds are reached. Good protection from large cams. Jug
haul to the top but beware of brittle rock.
S. McMullan, M. Daly Sept 96
Scoilt Uí Dhugáin
Directions: At the end of Slí Gola on the Northern side of the island lies Scoilt Uí Dhugáin
(Scollydoogan), a zawn with a huge sea arch. The routes recorded so far are on a black slab on the
eastern end of this arch. Access is by abseil to a ledge system at the base of the slab. Abseil stakes
or a 100m Abseil rope required to access sea level slabs.
Map ref: B763276
C.U. Burn E1 5a 27m
This route takes a line through two small overhangs one third of the way in from the left of the wall.
Climb the wall on smaller and smaller holds to the first overhang. Arrange good protection at the lip
and make delicate moves up and over. Proceed to the second small roof, arrange slightly worse gear
and move up the fault. Take care with loose rock at the top.
R. Kernan, S. Abraham 09/06/13
Trundlewheel VS 4b 27m
Starting from the middle of the non-tidal ledge system at the base of the slab, climb left and then right
on good obvious holds to the corner. Stay right of the corner in the upper half and take care with loose
rock at the top. Spaced protection.
R. Kernan, S. Abraham 09/06/13
NW Zawn End Wall
32
www.uniqueascent.ie
Directions: A little headland on the eastern side of the unnamed deep inlet next west of N.W. Zawn. A
steep, clean west-facing wall has a huge cave on its south end (a dent in the coastline with a
blowhole) and is bounded to the north by a deep wide chimney/crack which runs the full height of the
cliff. Access to the climbs is gained by scrambling down north of the chimney to reach a large
platform, 1.5m above high water mark. This descent can also be used for the routes on the North
West Boulevard
Map ref: B763275
Baidin Fheidhlimidh S 22m
From the platform scramble down left (facing in) and continue leftward for several metres to reach a
good ledge just right of a deep, wide, black corner. Climb steeply on good flakes, trending right at first,
then back left, passing a bulge near the top.
G. Moss, T. O'Neill, H. Sharkey 16/06/96
Hugh's No. 2 VD 20m
Start from the platform. Traverse a short wall at right angles to the chimney on good holds and move
up to a ledge. Climb the wall just left of the chimney.
H. Sharkey, T. O'Neill, G. Moss 16/06/96
Northwest Passage HVS 5a 40m
T. O'Neill, G. Moss 16/06/96
Start as for above. Climb down a crack to a narrow shell encrusted ledge (low tide only), traverse this
to its end and make a difficult move right to gain a crack just left of the chimney. Climb the crack to a
ledge and step into the chimney. Launch out onto the ledge system running across the wall and follow
this airily to its right hand end. Move around the corner and climb a short corner to finish. (If the ledge
at the start of the climb is under water the crack to the left of the chimney can be gained by traversing
in as for the start of the previous climb)
T. O'Neill, G. Moss 16/06/96
NW Zawn Area
Directions: This zawn is at the end of the Gola Highway. It has a Bouldery beach and corners at its
head. Its east wall has a prominent detached leaning tower, and massive rocks lying precariously on
steep slopes above. The first six routes are found on the walls to the right of the boulder beach as you
look out to sea and are described from the seaward end working your way back towards the beach.
Map ref: B764275
An Sron E4 6a 20m
This route takes the left trending groove that runs into the wide crack on the face of the prow. Climb
the groove (difficult bridging and layaways) to reach good edges under the roof. Follow the crack
around onto the face (a knee-lock gives a hands off rest) just above the roof. Continue up the crack
on slopers and jams.
C. Torrans C. Sheridan 15/09/96
Vanishing Point E1 5b 20m ***
An excellent route on perfect granite with good protection. The route takes the corner and crack on
the east wall just right of the non-tidal ledge. Start from the ledge, climb down and right to a good
crack and follow this past an overhang and corners to the top.
C. Torrans, C Sheridan 08/09/96
Transatlantic HS 4c 15m
Climbs the small sea stack. A step across from the mainland ledge gains the groove in the centre of 
33
www.uniqueascent.ie
the wall via a hard move.
C. Hayes, M. Young 06/03
Holographic Universe HVS 5a 20m
This route takes the thin crack to the right of the black dyke. Move up the thin crack on steepening
ground to gain the ledge. Continue up on positive crimps as the crack widens.
T. Prebble, C. Gilmour 10/06/12
The Ubiquitous Blue E1 5b 22m *
On the far side of the zawn from Ghost Road is a prominent leaning pinnacle, slightly detached from
the main wall. This route takes the corner crack on the northern side of the pinnacle, passing through
a small roof at one third height. Good protection and solid rock (at least for your right foot anyway)
Belay well back.
R. Kernan, C. Gilmour 06/06/12
The Third Policeman HVS 5a 22m **
This route takes the corner crack on the southern side of the pinnacle. Take care with dubious
chockstones and big cams would be useful. Belay as for The Ubiquitous Blue. A good corner climb on
excellent rock.
R. Kernan, S. Abraham 09/06/13
Smuggling Raisins HVS 5a 20m
This takes the steepening ramp on the left side of the pillar, opposite Ghost Road. Move awkwardly
over the bulge to the base of the ramp. Continue up the right side of the ramp on increasingly delicate
moves, traversing left at the top to avoid a loose top out. Belay far back on the right.
T. Prebble, C. Gilmour 09/06/12
34
www.uniqueascent.ie
Inscrutability Puff E2 5c 20m *
Opposite Ghost Road in Northwest Zawn at the top of the cliff lie some prominent and precarious
looking slabs with a short tunnel through them. Not far left of this is a rising right to left fist-size crack
with a small roof at the bottom. Climb this, taking care with loose rock at the top.
C. Gilmour, R. Kernan 06/06/12
Louse House HS 4b 18m
5m Right of Inscrutability Puff. Climb the obvious right-to-left crack to an alcove. Climb onto a
pedestal on the left then step right, finishing up the blocky pillar. Take care with loose rock at the top
S. Abraham, R. Kernan 09/06/13
The next three routes climb the steep, north-facing wall above the boulder beach that has a tapering
cave to its right, near the back of the zawn.
Wizards Sleeve E1 5b 18m *
Take the inland facing slab on the corner to the left of “Ghost Road,” negotiate the delicate slab whilst
attempting to place your smallest gear. Stay left at the top as the right edge is a tad loose.
C. Gilmor, T. Prebble 09/06/12
Ghost Road E1 5b 20m
The superb left arete of the wall, climbed on its left hand side.
I. Rea, M. Rea 15/09/96
War Music E2 5b 20m
Near the left side of this wall is a short chimney, leading to a short left facing corner, then a flake then
an impending crack.
I. Rea, M. Rea 15/09/96
35
www.uniqueascent.ie
The following three routes all face east and ascend the black slabby wall, tucked in at the west corner
of the boulder strewn cove. They can be climbed at lowish tide.
Cygnus VS 4c 30m
Ascend the flaky crack just right of the corner. Where it peters out, step right onto small foot ledges
about 4m below the top. Finish on small holds beside a thin crack.
I. Rea, M. Rea 07/09/96
Frantic Heart HVS 5a 30m
Start 2m right of Cygnus. Climb small holds on the wall just left of the arete and gain a good ledge at
1/3 height. From here climb up good holds on the left of the arete to a point where, from good flakes,
a short step up and left gains a crack. Gain ledge and finish as for Cygnus.
I. Rea, M. Rea 07/09/96
Shifting skies VS 4c 30m
Start right of the arete at a hand crack. Go up this a short bit until big holds lead left to the arete.
Climb the arete directly to the top.
I. Rea, M. Rea 07/09/96
A Man Escaped S 25m
Follows the next fault left of Old Friends, finishing left of a nose.
I. Rea, M. Rea 14/09/96
Old Friends S 25m
This route faces east and takes the cracked fault just left of the right hand edge of the north-facing
buttress.
I. Rea, M. Rea, S. Willis 14/09/96
The following three routes are accessible at most states of the tide, but by abseil only. Right of Old
Friends is a series of sloping ledges. There are large loose blocks directly above these ledges, so it is
best to approach down the following route.
Bagpipe Music VS 4c 25m
From the ledges climb the left edge, up flakes and then a tight little corner.
I. Rea, M. Rea 14/09/96
Libra VS 4c 25m
Just left of Nexus 6. Climb the blocky arete to gain a ledge at the flake crack on Nexus 6. Make a
long step left around a corner to a foot ledge. Avoid the slightly loose corner by climbing the edge to
the top.
I. Rea, M. Rea 14/09/96
Nexus 6 HVS 5a 25m
From the right side of the ledges follow a blocky corner to its top. Go left to a crack and up this to a
good ledge just below the top.
I. Rea, M. Rea 14/09/96
The Neb VS 4b 25m
Abseil down the neb to ledges, depending on the tide. Start under and just left of the neb, climb
cracks and a block to the top passing on the left side of the neb.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 07/09/96
Street Sharks VS 4c 25m
Start as for The Neb. Follow the right trending cracks.
C. Sheridan, C. Torrans 07/09/96
36
www.uniqueascent.ie
The following routes begin from a long continuous ledge at the base of the north-facing wall directly
opposite the sea-stack/island. The ledge is clear at low tides and is reached by abseil or from the
descent-route described for Fokisit Wall (See below).
Blackie VS 4b 25m
This route climbs the crack in the black recess at the east end of the wall. Abseil down the arete to a
broad ledge that runs along the main face. Continue down to ledges (tidal) or belay above. Climb the
arete for 2 metres and move left to the wide crack. Follow this to the top.
C. Sheridan, C. Torrans 15/09/96
Seapink E1 5b 25m
Abseil to the broad ledge and traverse along the ledge to a short corner. Climb the corner crack to
top.
C. Sheridan, C. Torrans 07/07/96
Outdoor Relief HVS 5a 25m
Climb the wall just right of the arete and move right to big jugs. Continue up the wall above and finish
up the slim groove on the right (several possible finishes)
C. Torrans, c. Sheridan 15/09/96
Buffalo Bills VS 4b 25m
Just left of the recess at the right side of the steep wall. Climb a right slanting crack that leads into a
V shaped niche. Gain ledges above the niche, go right and climb a short left facing corner.
I. Rea, M. Rea 08/09/96
37
www.uniqueascent.ie
Sick Rose VS 4c 25m
Climbs the left hand and slightly overhung corner of the alcove, exiting right at the top.
I. Rea, M. Rea 08/09/96
Mushrooms HVS 5a 25m
Climbs the right hand corner of the alcove to a hand crack then an easy ramp.
I. Rea, M. Rea 08/09/96
L'Atalante VS 25m
Follows the left edge of the triangular buttress. Climb easily up a few blocky ledges then step right on
to the face and follow the left edge delicately to gain the easy ramp off.
I. Rea. M. Rea 08/09/96
Cold Mountain VS 4b 25m
Takes a direct line to the apex of the buttress.
I. Rea, M. Rea 08/09/96
Bird Song VD 25m
Just right of Cold Mountain and follow a line of flakes diagonally up right towards a knob. Go past this
to a ledge, and then finish up left.
I. Rea, M. Rea 08/09/96
NW Sea Stack
Sitting 30 meters out to sea from outdoor Relief, Blackie etc lives a prominent wedge shaped sea
stack. All four routes were free soloed with easiest access to the landward wall being a sea level
traverse from ledges at the seaward end of the stack. The rock on this stack is immaculate Gola
granite.
Hermits S 4a 15m
Climb the first set of vertical cracks in from the traverse ledges at the seaward end of the stack.
I. Miller 01/06/16
38
www.uniqueascent.ie
Hide Away S 4b 15m
Climb the second set of cracks and hold directly below the arête and follow the arête to summit.
I. Miller 01/06/16
Main Vein HS 4b 16m *
Climb the centre of the wall direct to half way ledge, continue trending right to highest point on the
face.
I. Miller 01/06/16
Corner on the Edge V. Diff **
Climb the corner direct through the two overhangs on enormous glorious jugs.
I. Miller 01/06/16

Inland Crag
Directions: The small buttress inland from the main cliff area.
Map ref: B761273
Days of Wine and Roses E1 5a 10m
At the left end of the crag is a very short chimney. The route starts 4m right of this at a thin crack,
which goes halfway up the crag. Follow this making a hard move to reach a horizontal break where
the crack ends. Continue up the wall on horizontal jams.
P. Mallon, T. McQueen July 95
Get Off the Bandwagon VS 4a 12m
39
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start about a metre right of Days of Wine and Roses and follow the vertical cracks until they end then
step left to finish up Days of Wine and Roses.
S. Walsh, M. Nicholson August 06
Weathered Window HS 4b 15m
Starts 2m to right of the Days of Wine and Roses. Start below obvious square depression. Climb up
to it and up right to finish.
A. Tees, B Johnston, A. Tees 12/06/93
Tasty Morsel HVS 5a 15m ***
3m left of Fast and Bulbous arete is a short crack. Climb the crack and wall above, trending slightly
left to finish.
P. O'Farrell, J. Hawkins. 29/03/97
Fast and Bulbous HVS 5b 14m
Ten metres to the right of Weathered Window is an arete. Climb up left of the arete moving onto it to
gain a flake at 6m. Continue up the arete.
T. McQueen, P. Mallon July 1995
Tongue Job E1 5b 15m **
Climbs just left of the green furry arete. Climb directly through the breaks to a small stance just left of
the arete. Make a difficult move up left through a faint groove, followed by a difficult mantle to finish.
J. O'Reilly, P. Owens. 29/03/97
Corner Boy HS 4b 15m *
Starts in a recess 4m right of the arete. Ascend behind leaning pillar, move left and up corner above.
A. Tees 28 June 81
Days of Wonder VS 5a 13m *
Start as for Corner Boy. Move right onto leaning pillar and climb steep corner to top.
P. Mallon, T. McQueen July 1995
Early Bird Gets The Clap, Second Mouse Gets the Cheese E3 6a 13m
Takes the (formerly) green wall between Days of Wonder and Winds of Change. Bridge or Chimney
up between the wall and the detached pillar to a stance on top of the pillar. Arrange solid gear then
make a big move up to the next break. Continue to the top on good gear, finishing up the fist-sized
vertical crack right of the arete.
R. Kernan, J. O'Hara (2 rp) 09/06/12
Winds of Change E3 6a 13m **
Starting 2m right of the detached block, climb the wall to gain a good ledge at 4m. Step right and
climb the crack. The difficulties ease off towards the top.
J. Hawkins, P. O'Farrell 29/03/97 FFA P. Swail 30/05/10
Legislator S 4a 15m
Start 3m right of leaning pillar. At the right hand side of the crag ascend a series of ledges and
corners.
A. Tees, B. Twomey, P. Simms 28/06/81
Fur Burger E1 5a 15m
Climbs the arete just left of Gorgonzolla. Climb the arete directly without deviation, small friends for
protection.
40
www.uniqueascent.ie
P. Owens, J. O'Reilly 29/03/97
Gorgonzolla E2 5c 14m **
On the right hand side of the buttress there is an obvious vertical crack starting 4m off the ground.
Starting beneath this climb the wall to gain the ledge. Move up and left into the crack. Continue to the
top finishing left when the crack runs out.
J. Hawkins, P. O'Farrell 30/03/97
Pigs Garden S 13m
About 5 meter left of Gorgonzola is a pig shaped rock. Climb the cracks above pig through some
beautiful flowers to the left of big block at top.
V. Schafer, D. Colley, 01/08/2011
Easter Wall
Directions: Gola Island, North West side of Mweelmore, opposite Torglass Island. A 15-20 min walk
over the hills from the campsite. Well away from high seas with a good selection of routes from VDiffE2.
A nice alternative to the inland crag and some very obvious lines, scary high balls and good
surrounding bouldering left for the next visitor.
Map ref: B758266
Hot Cross Buns VD 8m
The first short chimney on the crag.
E. Ross 2011
The Last Supper VS 10m
41
www.uniqueascent.ie
First Left trending crack after the roof beside Hot Cross Buns, step up to the harder final bulge to
finish.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
Resurrection HS 10m
Next crack over from the last supper, easier finish up to a ledge with a final easy corner.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
The Gift E2 5c 10m
Excellent delicate climbing right of resurrection up to the center brake to gain the next vertical crack
starting half way up the cliff.
P. Brennan, J. Read April 2011
Trinity E1 5c 10m **
Cool obvious line up the middle of the wall, crimpy start up to the first break, reach up to the scooped
edge and follow the flake up to an awkward final bulge.
S. Read, P. Brennan April 2011
Jungle Scream VS 4c 10m
Climbs the vertical crack just right of The Passion. Start as for the passion and use twin cracks, or if
you must, only the right crack to gain the first horizontal brake. Venture on up the right crack directly
to the top.
K. Kilroy, Benoit 10/07/11
The Passion HVS 10m
 The leftward trending crack above the step down to the lower wall. Hard step across to the right of
the 'V' crack to finish.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
42
www.uniqueascent.ie
Easter egg VS 12m
P. Brennan, J. Read April 2011
A great route starting just left of the first roof on the lower level wall and move right above the top of
the rood to finish up the parallel cracks.
The Talpiot Tomb, E1 5b, 12m
F.A. J. Boyle, M. McAllister, 13th July 2012
Start in left corner of recess and move rightwards under roof to gain poor foothold on right of slab.
From here, attack roof directly to gain thin flake above (and reasonable wire) before a high reach
towards jug and easier ground above.
The Angelas HS 12m
Follow the first obvious vertical crack on the left of the roof.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
Crown of Thorns HS 12m
Next crack left of the Angela's, awkward and a grassy to finish
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
The 3rd day HS 12m
Next crack over from Barabbas, harder to finish than it looks.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
Barabbas HS 12m
The right trending crack to the right of Gadaffy Duck.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
43
www.uniqueascent.ie
Gadaffy Duck S 12m *
Easiest leftward trending crack on the left hand side of this part of the wall.
J. Read, E. Ross April 2011
The Immaculate Conception of Benoit HVS 5a 16m
Starts on the large step left of ‘Gadaffy Duck’. Climb directly through the Z shaped breaks on small
holds. Gain the sloping ledge (crux), continuing to for a furry finish.
T. Prebble, N. Browne 06/06/12
John’s Wall
Directions: From Easter Wall descend to sea level down the slabs and steps towards the main wall of
Gola sitting across the huge sea inlet. This wall provides excellent climbing from a tidal sea level
platform, calm seas and dry weather required as wall faces north and receives very little sun.
Grid Ref. B757266
La Giaconda E1 5b 9m
Starting 2m right of Reach & Grin, climb short overhanging crack to horizontal break, place gear, take
breath and move up and right to flake. Proceed up this, with a tricky step left to another flake near top.
R. Kernan, L. Davison 10/6/14
Reach & Grin VS 4b 15m
Climb the corner at the right hand end of the crag.
I. Miller, C. Collins, L. 25/06/12
Fat Bar Steward HS 4b 15m
Climb the first full crag height crack line in from the corner, crux is the start.
N. Kelly, R. Dowd 25/06/12
For John HVS 4c 15m
Climb the second full crag height corner in from the corner.
C. McGrory, R. Dowd 25/06/12
44
www.uniqueascent.ie
South West Corner
Directions: A little beast of a wall is to be found on the SW tip of Goal Island. Outside of high seas the
crag is very accessible by foot. Approach, about 15 minutes walk south west from the camp site. Drop
down to sea level opposite Torglass and follow the shore past an inlet and some short steep
overhanging walls on your left until you reach the hidden corner. Grid Ref B759264
45
www.uniqueascent.ie
First Steps D 8m
Up the easy steps on the left had side of the crag.
S. Read 12/08/12
Reiki my ass VD 8m
The first direct line up the steps.
S. Read 12/08/12
Easy Lionel VD 8m
Start to the left of the small square cut alcove and move up trough a good wee open book corner.
S. Read 12/08/12
The Beast of Gola HVS 8m
Bridge directly up through the middle of the square cut alcove and make a couple of steep moves to
gain the small ledge above (crux), moving up left to finish.
S. Read, E. Ross 12/08/12
Attila the Thumb HVS 5a 8m *
Starts 2m right of The Beast of Gola. Mantle onto a large ledge and bridge out left to place gear.
Climb to the right of the alcove until a tricky step left on side pulls allows a finish as for The Beast of
Gola. Harder and pumpier than it looks
S. Abraham, R. Kernan 07/06/13
Follow the craven HVS 8m
The first slightly overhanging line to the right of the main corner, direct start is harder than the corner
on the left. Well protected but character building climbing gains the small platform at 2/3’rds height, 
46
www.uniqueascent.ie
then just head for the top as quick as you can.
S. Read 12/08/12
Dragon Fly arête VS 8m
The main arete on the right and side of the wall, great positive jugs and fantastic climbing all the Way
S. Read, E. Ross 12/08/12
Sneaky Pete HS 8m
Start right of the arête, move up through the steep corner to easier final ledge.
S. Read, E. Ross 12/08/12
South Walls
Directions: From the South West corner Crag travel along the coast until you are facing out to
Torglass Island. Between you and Torglass is a large tongue of rock creating a superb wee sheltered
bay. The routes climbed so far begin on the slabby wall facing the tongue of rock and continue
leftward as you face the land from the tip of the tongue.
Grid Ref B759265
Grand Corner V.Diff 15m
Climb the corner at the far right of the wall
I. Miller, C. Gleeson 14/07/12
Where’s Douglas gone? Severe 15m
Start a meter left of the Grand Corner.
M. McAlister, J. Boyle 14/07/12
47
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Great Train Robbery S 4a 15m
Move up the wall using the criss-crossed cracks and breaks 4m left of corner.
J. Boyle, U. Breathnach, 14/07/12
Gleeson’s Edge V.Diff 15m
Climb the next corner to the right of Cross Corner.
I. Miller, C. Gleeson 14/07/12
Cross Corner V.Diff 15m
Climb the first right trending corner at the far left of the wall.
I. Miller 14/07/12
Sick Boy VS 15m
At the far left of this wall in the middle of the small ledge (1 Meter by 0.5m) and go straight up aiming
for the left hand crack line at the top. Stick to the left beside the corner of the wall but don’t use it.
M. McAlister, U. Bresthnach 14/07/12
Continue for approx 50m along the cliff tops from the summit of Grand Corner Wall to the point where
the cliff turns slightly and steepens. An easy abseil down this juncture of the walls takes you to a sea
level platform which runs the full length of the base of the cliff.
Queenbee S 4a 12m *
Start on right hand side of large belay ledge. Climb easily, trending right to stance at half height below
obvious corner. Climb the corner with interest. Good protection.
C. McLarnon, D. Wright 11/08/12
Honeybee S 3c 12m
Start 1 meter left of start for Queenbee. Climb trending right, to small stance at 4 meters. Climb the
corner straight up on good holds.
C. McLarnon, D. Wright 11/08/12
Bubblebee S 4a 12m
Start as for Honeybee. Climb the wall on the left hand side direct to the top. Good protect, crux
midway.
D. Wright, C. McLarnon 11/08/12
48
www.uniqueascent.ie
Erste Heute HS 4b 12m
Climb the first right facing arête to the left of the abseil approach, excellent holds and climbing but a
bit bold in the upper reaches.
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 10/08/12
The Groove HS 4b 12m
Climb the next groove to the left of “Erste Heute Arete.”
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 10/08/12
Lotti HS 4b 12m
Next left climb the large platforms and the corner above.
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 10/08/12
Schillet HS 4b 14m
Climb from a stance on the platform and step around the corner left, continue up the slabby wall on
good holds.
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 11/08/12
Dr. Matheo E1 5c 16m
Climb the narrow chimney to a stance, continue up the corner of tiny footholds and finish up a hidden
flake on the left.
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 11/08/12
Rockin Roll HVS 5b 18m
Climb the technical corner to a large flake, follow the flake and continue leftwards to an obvious crack
line, follow this to the summit.
W. Schuessler, M. De Pellegrini 11/08/12
49
www.uniqueascent.ie
Torglass Island
Torglass Island sits approx 50m off the western tip of Mweelmore point on the south west tip of Gola
Island. Access is by a short sea passage to the huge sea level platforms on it’s south face. The rock is
immaculate Gola granite and it is currently very underdeveloped.
Grid Ref B756266
First line VD 10m
Climb the deep groove on positive holds towards the top.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Right crack S 12m
Climb the right hand crack of the parallel cracks on big mantels towards the top.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Left crack VD 12m
Climb the left hand crack of the parallel crack system in the middle of the wall on blocky steps.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Chockstone chimney VD 12m
Climb the Chimney right of the slab with a big chockstone at the end of the chimney.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
The following two routes are found on the slab to the left of the obvious chockstone chimney.
Plattenkante HS 4a 12m *
Start climbing the centre of the wall. After 3m climb towards the right hand Arette. Continue
and follow the Arette to the top.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Central slab HS 4b * 12m
Start under the left hand side of the slab. Use the left hand arrete to get unto the slab.
Follow this direct up until you reach positive handholds.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
50
www.uniqueascent.ie
Steppenwolf HVS 4c 14m **
Follow the obvious Basalt vein up the wall. After reaching the end of the black Basalt vein traverse
left on small footholds and escaspe trought the V-shaped crack to reach a plattform.
Finish the climb in the right hand corner on perfect jugs.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Tag am Meer HS 4a 14m *
Start at the middle of the slab and climb towards the left using the small cracklines for gear.
Follow the fingercracks towards a big plattform and finish in the corner.
W. Schuessler 25/03/11
Many thanks must go to all the troops over the years who have played out and continue to play out
on Gola.
This guide relied heavily on the original Gola guide by Padraic Breen, many thanks Sir! 