1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A Climbers Guide to
Gweedore
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Gweedore
Gweedore, known locally as Gaoth Dobhair, lives in between Cloughaneely and the Rosses to the south
Gweedores coastline stretches for approximately 25km from from Meenaclady in the north to Crolly in the
south and it is one of Europe's most densely populated rural areas, it is also the largest Irish speaking parish in
Ireland.
Gweedore coast along the Wild Atlantic Way can easily be described simply as one enormous Caribbean type
sandy beach and as such is an outstanding place to visit in the summer months.
Within in the parish of Gweedore there an enormous amount of bouldering and highball rock dotted all over the
region, it is simply a case of stopping the car whenever you see rock from the road and going for a look.
There are so far two main climbing location both are quite small but will each provide a half day of vertical
pleasure. Tor na Dumhcha being the better location and providing immaculate vertical Gola Granite to play on.
The Sand Quarry
Three short white granite walls are to be found just outside Derrybeg amongst the dunes north east of the pier
for Inishmeane.
GR8029. Take a left at the first brown beach sign outside of Derrybeg. This laneway L53231 is signposted as
Bealach na Gealtachta Slí na Earagail, trá Beach. Park the car above the beach close to the solitary pick-nick
table, Walk back across the flat grass to find a secluded granite outcrop located in a bit of a sand pit. Not a major
crag by any means but a nice spot to kill a couple of hours on a few easier climbs if you are in the area. 6 routes
have been done on the two main granite faces.
1: Robins Route S 8m
Climb the left pillar on the left of the left wall.
2: Chimney Bleep S 8m
Climb the deep chimney.
3: It’s not the royal wedding HS 9m
Straight up the wall to the right of Robins Route, avoiding the easier cracks for next time wear a rope on the
right.
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
4: Next time wear a rope S 9m
take the line on the photo (3), just left of the undercut using the best holds you can find.
5: Run Away Bride HS 10m
Take a rightward trending line to the right of the undercut scoop
6: Windsor Malice HS 12m
Follow the main crack on the right hand end of the right hand wall.
7: Wedding Peasant Diff 10m
Follow the easier cracks and ledges to the right of Windsor Malice.
Tor na Dumhcha
This 20 metre stack is situated just off the Lower Glashagh headland by Gweedore. Access is by a five minute
walk and a short sea passage. The stacks south face is a 20 metre vertical wall of excellent "Gola" type sea
battered granite.
Directions: From Jacks Hotel as you leave Gweedore take the sharp left and follow the B class road to the small
beach car park. On foot follow the coastal path North over several new wooden bridges to the headland
overlooking the stack.
Grid Reference B803304
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
1: A Bridge Too Far S 4a 20m **
From the Large Triangular ledge at the seaward end of the face traverse across the steep wall on monster jugs to
gain the base of the corner. Bridge (or squirm) up the corner with increasing air between your feet.
I. Miller, M, Boner 17/05/09
2: Chatterbox S 4a 15m *
Climb the big corner immediately to the seaward side of the main face, abseil access or a traverse in from the
main face is much more sporting.
M. Boner, I. Miller 17/05/09
2a: First Blood S 4b 15m
From the stance at the end of the first pitch of “Nature always provides,” traverse out to sea onto the square cut
arête, climb this arête on its’s outer edge to the summit.
I. Miller, B & M Martin 15/06/16
3: Nature Always Provides S 35m **
Pitch 1: 20m Starting on the spacious recess at the bottom of Easy Exit, follow a superb sea level traverse just
above the high water mark to a smaller stance at the bottom of the Arete at the seaward end of the face.
Pitch 2: 15m Climb the arête directly above the stance.
I. Miller, M. Boner 28/02/09
4: Ziggy Zig Ahh! VS 4b 15m *
Climb the left most crack on the face.
I. Miller, A. Harding. R. Anderson 10/08/14
5: Exit Stage Left VS 4b 15m **
Climb "Unhindered by Talent" for 3 metres, make a step left onto a superb series of layback jugs. Layback on 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
jugs to the summit.
I. Miller, E. Wallace, M. Boner 31/05/09
6: “Fine Display, Young Wallace!” HVS 5a 15m **
Climb The steep & sustained finger/hand crack to the left of "Unhindered by Talent." Eases nicely in the last
few metres.
I. Miller, E. Wallace, M. Boner 31/05/09
7: Unhindered By Talent VS 4c 15m ***
Climb the superb hand crack up the centre of the face.
I. Miller, M. Boner 17/05/09
8: The Internal Grin S 15m **
Climb the superb left facing corner, right of the centre of the face on huge jugs, big gear and a massive smile.
I. Miller, M. Boner 21/02/09
9: One for the Photographer VS 4b 18m *
Starting at the bottom of “The Internal Grin,” make a rising traverse seaward following the shallow diagonal
crack line, join “Exit Stage Left” and the follow to summit.
I. Miller, H. McCormack 09/10/14
10: Heavens Hexes HS 4b 15m *
Climb the excellent steep jamming crack between “The Internal Grin” and the “Easy Exit” chimney, without
jamming!
M. Boner, I. Miller 28/02/09
11: Easy Exit Diff 12m
At the extreme right of the face climb the wide chimney groove, finish on the ledge or step left and continue to
summit.
I. Miller, M. Boner 21/02/09
12: Exit Stage Right DIFF 10m
On the access ramp from the landward side of the main face climb the dark chimney crack.
M. Boner 31/05/09