1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Inishowen
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Inishowen
The rock climbing on Inishowen peninsula is quite simply Donegal rock climbing in miniature.
Map of Inishowen
Crummies Bay (Port Na Sionnach)
Directions: An unusual crag of orange coloured rock, on the northern side of a small inlet immediately
north of Crummies Bay. The rock tends to be loose, especially towards the top. As there are now
'Private' signs on the previous access route to this crag, it is advisable to leave your vehicle at the
main car park for the beach and approach via the strand, crossing the shallow river estuary and gain
the coast. Walk north along the shore and at the first bay move inland to arrive at the southern side of
a steep boulder filled inlet. The routes are on the right hand side of the bay.
Map ref: C288402
Twisted Speech HS 4a 50m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 07/05/95
Left of Rowdy Rascals is a wide diagonal crack which leads to a small overhang. Climb the thin,
fluted face cracks just right of this and go up the extreme left hand edge, with an airy finish just left of
a loose block.
Rowdy Rascals S 50m
FA B. Patton, B. McDermott June 81
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
About 10m left of Crummie's Crumble. Move up off some boulders onto slanting ledge, and continue
up along the left-hand edge of the ramp mentioned in Crummie's Crumble.
Crummie's Crumble VD 50m
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton June 81
This takes the right-hand corner of the obvious ramp at the lower, or left end of the crag, starting from
a massive boulder at its base.
Birthday Blues S 50m *
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton June 81
Right of Crummie's Crumble is a large grey slab. This route goes up the left-hand edge of it.
Variations possible.
Picos Prelude VD 50m
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton June 81
Takes a parallel line about 4m right of Birthday Blues.
For Forsythe VD 50m
FA B. Patton, B. McDermott June 81
Takes a parallel line towards the right-hand side of the Grey Slab. Variations possible.
Gang O'Four HS 4b 50m *
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton June 81
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Just right of the Grey Slab is the Red Slab. This route goes straight up the left centre of it. Variations
possible.
Dylysgyi Daydream VD 50m
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton June 81
Start at the right-hand end of Red Slab, move up leftwards, and continue right of centre to the top.
Columba's Hitman Direct VS 4b 20m
FA B. McDermott, R. Smith, B. Patton June 81
Just right of the cave is a wide crack, very steep at first but easing above. Climb it until it turns
horizontal, traverse left and climb directly up.
Columba's Hitman VS 4b 20m
FA P. Grant, B. McDermott, G. Colhoun June 81
As for Columba's Hitman Direct, only traverse right and climb the edge.
White Riot VS 4b 25m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 07/05/95
Climbs the arete of the Columba routes, starting just right of the toe of the edge, moving left onto the
arete and following this directly up to the top.
Groovy Grandad S 4a 20m
FA M. Patton, R. Smith, June 81
4m right of Columba's Hitman, around the corner, is a wide crack which is climbed past a large flake
to a corner. The wall above is climbed on small holds.
Tooth Fairy HS 4b 20m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher 07/04/94
Right of 'Groovy Grandad' is a detached pinnacle or flake. Climb to the top of it and step onto the
face. Continue up a crack to the top.
Strawman VS 4b 20m
FA I. Rea, M Rea 07/05/95
Climb the wall, at the thin crack just left of Victory V until level with the second small overhang on the
right edge. Go onto edge and finish.
Vulpine S 4a 18m
Take the 'V' shaped diedre up the centre of the arete.
A. Tees, K. Gallagher 04/11/93
Alpine VS 4b 18m
Climb the ledge to the left of "Vulpine".
A. Tees, K. Gallagher 04/11/93
King Mintiagh (Barnanmore)
This is a pleasant little Dolerite Plug about 9.5 K East of Buncrana, on the northern footslopes of
Slieve Snacht. The routes are mostly in the easier grades, and some care is needed with loose rock.
Directions: Follow the Buncrana/Carndonagh Mountain road until the "Plug" becomes visible on the
road's southside. Limited parking available at a gateway opposite the crag, which is a 10-ish minute
walk up the hill.
Map ref: C393410
North Side
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Furthest left faces, as seen when facing crag. Routes left to right.
Tepee Groove S 4a 10m
FA N. McLaughlin, C. McLaughlin 26/03/04
This takes a right slanting groove on the third short wall to the left of rocky outcrop of 'Baby Stew'.
The climb can be gained by various starts.
Arrow S 3c 10m
FA C.Mclaughlin, N. McLaughlin 26/03/04
To the left of the rocky outcrop where baby Stew is there are three short walls. This route takes the
prominent central crack on the 2nd of these short walls.
Baby Stew VD 3c 8m
FA S. Hamilton, R. Groves May 78
Centre of the closest small out crop to the left of the main crag. a strenuous finger climb following
small but adequate holds to the top.
The most obvious feature on the North Side is Jackdaw Gully and these climbs are up inside it.
Ballymoney Line S 4a 8m
FA M. Manson, A. Tees
This route follows the obvious crack about 2m left of Irene's Chimney.
Irene's Chimney D 8m
FA A. & I. Tees 1975
Straight forward chimney at the back of Jackdaw Gully. 
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Jackdaw Chimney S 4a 15m *
FA A. Tees, RJ Lee June 76
Climb the prominent chimney at the base of the gully past the nest to a grassy ledge. Step across the
gap at the chimney's top and traverse right to the end of a cramped and exposed ledge and up to the
top.
Jackdaw Chimney Direct HVS 5a 15m *
FA P. Chatterley, D. Campbell and party 23/08/80
The chimney is capped on its right by a series of overhangs. Climb these direct until a move towards
the right-hand edge on small holds gives good hand jamming and bridging in the final crack. (Crux).
Continue to the top, the belay is well back.
The next climbs are right of Jackdaw Gully
Mayfly S 4a 20m
FA S. Hamilton, A. Tees May 77
At the bottom of the crag about 8m right of Jackdaw Chimney. Climb up on good holds to stand on
the top of a spike (about half-way up). Pull up past a heather filled niche (crux) and pick your route to
the top.
Crocodile Rock D 18m
FA D. Reid, A. Tees May 78
This follows a prominent rough edge about 6m right of Mayfly.
A short wall can be seen up above a grassy slope
Polar Pat S 4a 10m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 29/09/07
This takes the right hand side of the slab, bounded on its right by the short "Sabrecut" chimney. Move
left above crux, and finish to the highest point.
Sabre Cut S 6m
FA NWMC early 1980’s
Takes the deep off-width at the top and to the right of the Tear Drop Buttress. 
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Back down and right
Arctic Fox S 4a 15m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper, 28/08/07
On the right hand side of the grassy bay bounded on the left by "Crocodile Rock" and on the right by
"KIng Minch" is a wide crack, which is gained from a ledge, and then up left on good holds. Move up
the crack, and step out left and climb delightfully to the top.
There are 2 climbs on the short wall above 'Artic Fox'.
Sabre Rattler HVS 5a 8m *
FA P. Cooper, A. Tees 29/09/07
4m right of 'Sabre Cut' and 3M left of 'Aeolius'. Start below and right of an overlap, climb up and then
step left, once above overlap. Finish up short left-facing shallow corner. RP’s or small wires needed
Aeolius VS 5b 7m
FA P. Cooper, A. Tees 30/08/07
Climb the crackline r. of centre, finishing directly above it. Good sport on excellent, but short, rock.
King Minch VD 20m *
FA A. Tees, D. Reid May 78
About 1Om right of Crocodile Rock locate large cracks at the base of crag and climb them to a ledge.
Traverse left to edge and move up in footholds to heather and up to base of more cracks. Climb these
and finish with a leftward trending crack in the back wall.
Crazy Paving VS 4c 12m *
FA T. McKenna, F. McCloskey 14/11/93
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
Between 'King Minch' and 'O'Doherty's Keep' there is a steep south facing cracked wall. The route
follows the face between the crack and arete. Climb finishes over 'V' shaped groove at the top. Poor
protection with small holds. Descent on right down an awkward gully.
O'Doherty's Keep VD 15m
FA S. Hamilton, A. Tees July 77
Follow the wide crack on the right of 'Crazy paving', just around the corner from King Minch (to its
right). An awkward move near the top.
Next routes are across a gully to the right where a short steep wall can be identified by a pair of leftfacing
corners.
Flaky Pastry VS 4c 10m
FA M. McGinty, Z. Stephenson 08/08/00
This route takes an obvious offwidth crack (?)on the left-hand side of the rock outcrop. From an
awkward stance, climb the off-width into the corner and then up the wall to finish.
Choux VS 5a 9m
FA P. Cooper 19/08/07
On the r. of 'Flaky Pastry' are a corner and then a groove/shallow corner. The groove is climbed to an
overlap, aim for rock spike. Whilst short, the rock is good; gear ends just below crux.
Next route is approx. 10M right of Flaky Pastry and Choux, directly behind a large pointed boulder.
Monty VD 10m
FA NWMC Early 1980s
Directly behind a large pointed boulder, awkwardly climb the wall to a ledge; go left and then easily
up the top.
Sionalnn's Groove VD 8m
FA C & N McLaughlin 15/08/98
3 metres to the right of `Monty' is a visible groove. Start at the right hand edge, traverse left into the
groove, which is climbed on good handholds and bridging. Locate a high jug and gain the overlap.
Exit to top through the V slot.
Dee's Edge S 8m
FA N & C McLaughlin 15/08/98
Start as for `Sionainn's Groove' and climb the edge to the top, without using holds on `Sionainn's
Groove' or the slab on the right.
The next route is located on an outcrop down the hill, approx 4 mins walk.
Hangover Blues HS 4b 12m
FA T. McKenna, F. McCloskey 14/11/93
Climb a diagonal crack with a chockstone at 3/4 height, on the left portion of the bottom outcrop; 1M
right of a separating gully.
The next routes are around the back of summit plug ("opposite side of the hill"), on very good rock.
Pulp Fiction VD 8m
FA M. McLucas, S. Hamilton March 97
This route takes the corner of the short steep capped wall at the extreme left hand edge of the wall,
to exit left of overhang. 
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Monkey Nuts VS 5b 9m **
FA P. Cooper 29/09/07
The crack-line direct, without deviation.
Spanking the Monkey HS 4b 8m
FA M. McLucas, S. Hamilton Aug 97
Just right of'Pulp Fiction' climb broken crack until it thins out after large obvious foothold. Step right
onto arete to finish.
The next routes are situated at the far right hand side of the buttress, before a gully.
Natural Blonde S 4b 7m
FA P. Cooper, A. Tees 19/09/07
A direct start below the, now dug-out, crack of 'Blonde Accesory' gives pleasant enough climbing.
This climb doesn't replace 'BA', just gives a more natural clean line.
Blonde Accessory S 3c 7m
FA M. McLucas, S. Hamilton Aug 97
At the extreme right of the wall, climb to a grassy ledge at halfway, step left, and finish up crack.
Leenan Head
Directions: Access from Derry is over Mamore Gap to Leenan, turning right before the pier, and
parking at the bridge over the moat, Gr 300444. Continue on foot through the ruined fort, and the crag
is just South of the small sea stack "Leenan Needle". The routes are on the slabs forming the South
side of two or three prominent corners.
Map ref: C296465
Oak Arete VD 25m
Grid Ref C302428 This route climbs the seaward face of the lonely wee sea stack in the bay a km to
the South of Leenan Bay beach. Access is by Leenankeel farm road followed by a 150m sea passage
from the storm beach to the South of the stack.
Pitch 1. 10m Scramble up the black ramp & up through a wee groove to a large platform high above
the high water mark.
Pitch 2. 15m Climb the arete direct to the summit.
B. Whelan, I. Miller 16/06/10
Leenan Needle VD 3c 20m
Grid Ref C296446. This route climbs the easy angled South Face of the wee sea stack just off Lenan
Head. Access is by Abseil to the tidal platforms facing the southern end of the stack, followed by a
short atmospheric sea passage.
I. Miller, B. Whelan 11/06/10
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Colonic Irrigation D 3c 18m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 07/03/10
Abseil down the right hand side of Uranus Slab (the slab forming the South side of the most Northerly
corner) to a fine ledge above the water level, and right of, a cave. Follow the groove, first steeply,
and then more easily to the top.
Haemorrhoids S 4a 18m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 07/03/10
Abseil down the centre of the slab to gain the ledge, (further right of "Colonic Irrigation"). Surmount
the short impending wall on small footholds and continue up the centre of Uranus slab.
Colonic Hydrotherapy D 20m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 07/03/10
Abseil down Uranus, to a small platform at sea level, at the base of the arete, (being careful not to
be swept away)!Climb back up the arete, steeply at first, but on jugs, and then more easily.
Leenan Arete D 18m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 07/03/10
Abseil down the corner just South of "Uranus" to belay above wave level. Traverse out right, and
continue up easily, but airily to the top on the arete.
Bamba's Island
Directions: From Bamba's Tower head North crossing the fence via the stile. Then head North East to
reach the Eastern edge of the small island. Cross where the channel is narrowest (seems logical!)
and climb up a rock rib to a large square block. A short descent allows one to cross onto the island via
a chockstone. Access depends on sea state as in calm seas it can be done at high tide. In rough seas 
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
it can be quite exciting. Initial routes are on the South west tip but there is potential most of the
Southern side.
Map ref: C397597
Furthest North D 7m
FA T. Hartley, A. Conn 19/04/11
At the Western end of the island there is a large non tidal boulder, abseil down to this. Beware it can
be wave washed in high seas and a belay is very sensible. This whole face is easily seen from the
mainland opposite From the righthand end of the boulder go up the overhung slab avoiding the
overhangs on the left.
Russ Abbot D 12m
FA A. Conn, T. Hartley 17/04/11
From the right hand side of the boulder, traverse horizontally right for about 5m to the first V shaped
chimney. Ascend this. Easy and not great climbing but Oh what an atmosphere.
Elephants In Straw Hats D 14m
FA A. Conn, T. Hartley 17/04/11
From the boulder's right hand side traverse horizontally right for about 7 metres to the second V
shaped chimney (rather dirty) and ascend this.
Galavoir Point
Directions:
Map ref: C536519
Climbs on Jura Wall, the inland crag above and East of Glengad Wall.
Columba's Corner S 4a 14m
FA A. Tees, C. Mclaughlin Aug 2000
At the left-hand end of the crag is a prominent right facing corner. Start below and to its left, move up,
step right, and climb the corner.
Jura Malt VD 15m
FA A. Tees, A. Tees Aug 2000
Right of 'Columba's Corner' is a a steep wall with a `stepped' arete on its right, this is gained via a
crack on the right.
Immediately right is a broken recess before the rock becomes sound again.
Approx 10M right of 'Jura Malt', and right of the recessed gully, is a buttress; 'Jura-Hex' lies to its lefthand
side.
Jura-Hex HS 4b 15m
FA A. Tees, A. Tees Aug 2000
One metre left of Jura-Bility climb a cracked 'diedre', step up left to small ledge and continue up wall
above. From here step left around the corner and climb the v-groove, with crack, to the top.
Jura-Bility S 4a 15m
FA A. Tees, M. Pailing Aug 2000
The quartzite vein, 1M right of 'Jura-Hex'. Climb to the ledge and continue up a line of weakness to
vegetated ledge, tricky move at the top. Finish as for 'Jura-Hex'. 
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
Jura Jaunt S 4a 15m
FA A. Tees, M. Pailing Aug 2000
Approx. 3M right of 'Jurability' is a short face topped with an open v-corner. The top of the corner
leads to a vegetated ledge, dynamic climbing up the short headwall gains the top.
Ledge VD 15m
FA C. McLaughlin, S. Cooke 28/08/00
About 1M right of 'Jura Jaunt' is a right-facing corner, climb this to a ledge on the left and finish up
either of the cracks in the wall above.
Cracker S 4a 15m
FA C. McLaughlin, S. Cooke 28/08/00
On the right-hand side of the crag is an obvious arete. Climb this directly to the top of the pinnacle.
Climb the twin cracks, treating the three jammed blocks on the left-hand side with suspicion.
Two Days to Go VD 14m
FA C. McLaughlin N. McLaughlin
Just left of "Wee Butt" there is an awkward crack. Climb this to the small ledge below the main block.
Finish up the right hand arete as for 'Wee Butt'.
Wee Butt D 14m
FA C. McLaughlin, N. McLaughlin 02/09/00
Climb the centre of the small buttress, approx. 10M right of 'Cracker', to a small ledge below the
square cut face. Move right and climb the arete to finish.
Glengad Wall.
The crag situated in the middle of the Galavoir area, at the water's edge. Descent gully on West.
Nancy Clancy the Fancy Dancer E2 6a 20m
FA N. Grimes G. Colhoun
Takes the obvious overhung left trending on the right side of the cave, left of `Grimer in Zion'.
Grimer in Zion E1 5b 20m *
FA A. Millar, G. Colhoun 1997
Start on left-hand side of main face, in a short corner that ends in an overhang at 5m (5m right of
cave). Climb corner and move right to good footholds on arete. Move finely up wall (crux) until holds
improve at black stain. Straight up the final wall above via footledge.
Geographer Paul E2 5c 20m *
FA A. Millar, F. McCloskey, R. Dunlop 1997
4m right of 'Grimer in Zion' climb steeply over overhang on good holds to stance above. Move up via
lay-away trending left as the wall bulges slightly to the right end of footledge in 'Grimer in Zion'. Move
right up fine wall to the top. Better protected than it appears.
Colhoun's Route E3 5c 20m **
FA A. Millar, R. Moore 28/04/00
Climb the overhangs as for Geographer Paul. Traverse right using good footholds till underneath the
right hand of the two holes in the face. Move up past this to huge hole at overhang. (Step right for rest
if you like). Then layback over hang on left side to thin stance above. Continue with sustained thin
moves up headwall to the top.
Salty Dog S 4a 18m **
FA A. Tees, V. Russell 08/09/92
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
A line of weakness forms a right-facing corner in the final 1/3rd of the face. Climb the overhangs that
form the corner, then follow the crack until you can step left onto the ramp.
Good Ship Venus VS 4c 20m **
FA P. Nelis, K. Gallagher 03/04/96
At the wall's right-hand end, about 4m right of Salty Dog, climb a short overhang to the clean-cut
right-facing corner corner. Move up and left out of this before traversing rightwards to the arete. Go
round for the endwall's left arete for thin steep climbing and poor protection to the top.
BIack Toe S 3c 15m
FA P. Smith, K. Gallagher
Right of the end wall is a lesser wall. This route makes its way up the arete to gain the slab above.
Wave Crest Rocks, situated at the water's edge immediately to the West of Glengad Wall. Access via
scramble or abseil.
El Paso HVS 5a 8m
FA D. Millar & P. Cooper 12/06/04
Approx. 4m to the left of 'True Grit'. Climb the lower wall via a bouldery-move to gain the rightward
trending top groove, a good 0.5 friend placement, continue up this to good finishing holds.
Truegrit HVS 5a 10m *
FA P. Dunlop, K. Gallagher 02/06/93
2-3 metres left of 'Wavecrack' climb into a corner before moving up and right to layback-up the huge
flake to the right. The initial poor start is more than made up for!
Wavecrack E5 6a 10m
FA P. Dunlop 02/06/93
Just left of the "Elephants Ear" climb the crack up the wall.
V-Crack VS 4b 8m
FA P. Cooper, B. Wingham 05/08/04
The V-crack right of wavecrack and left of raw hand.
Raw Hand VS 4c 8m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher 02/06/93
The most obvious feature is an 'Elephants Ear' protrusion about half way along with large boulders
below. Climb the recess/boulders and awkward crack above, just right of the Elephant's ear.
Room to Roam E1 5b 8m *
FA P. Cooper & P. Smith 02/08/03
Between 'Rawhand' and 'Clawhammer' is a small cave. Climb out of cave to foot of the steep right-toleft
rising diagonal crack, climb this. Fingerjams and bridging will assist progress.
Clawhammer VS 4b 8m *
FA A. Tees, A. Tees 02/06/93
2-3m right, climb steep cracks to a'V', layback up the right fork to the top. Excellent.
Catherine D HS 4a 8m
FA P. Dunlop, C. Desmond 02/06/93
Right of `Clawhammer' is a large overhang. Just to the right of this, climb up easily to reach a wall.
Move up and left to finish.
Catherine D's Right Hand HS 4b 8m
FA P. Cooper & P. Smith 02/08/03
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
Follow Catherine D through nice move to reach break, gear, then traverse right out to below right
hand arete; gain height via arete and finish on the face with a mantle.
Dunowen (Brazil Rock)
Directions: The old fisherman’s permissive path connecting Dunowen Wall with the other crags
beyond has been closed by the landowner. The locals are not happy about it, but nothing is likely to
be done, so use a different approach to these crags. On regaining the Culdaff/Glengad road from
Bunagee, turn right, and take the first right again, up the hill, past another turn to the right, and park in
a small quarry on the left. Just beyond this is a cart track on the edge of a field (close wire gate after
you) which leads down past a small byre, into a field, which gives access, over a tumble down wall, to
the rough ground above the shore. Very close to Brazil Rock!
Please do not take dogs to Dunowen. Please be careful when crossing the walls and replace any
stones that you may knock off. If you cross the land you do so at your own risk.
Map ref: C536513
Across the bay from Bunagee/Dunowen Fort a castle-like rock can be seen, this is Brasil Rock.
The first route follows the left hand arete of Brasil Rock.
Alhambra VD 18m *
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher, V. Russell 08/09/92
The start is at the base of a crack system about 2 metres to the right of the arete. Climb up steeply
for 2m and traverse left to the base of the edge, which is climbed, passing the overhang on the left; an
exposed step regains the main pillar. 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
Bunratti Pillar HVS 5a 18m ***
FA P. Nelis, K. Gallagher 08/09/92
Start as for Alhambra, but continue straight up the crack until a rightwards traverse gains a small
ledge; before a stunning layback up the crack to the top.
Bunratti Direct HVS 5a 18m
FA H. Hennessy, C. Brennan 17/06/12
Takes a line directly to the end of the traverse of "Bunratti Pillar" finish as for this route.
Zanzibar E1 5b 18m *
FA A. Tees, P. Robinson 08/08/92
This climbs the dramatic corner past several overhangs and exiting through the camels eye. The crux
is at the start and poorly protected.
Start of Something New E4 6a 20m **
FA P. Dunlop 08/11/92
Steep and sustained climbing up the capped groove right of Zanzibar. Climb the steep groove to the
cracked overhanging wall. Climb this short wall, past some friends in a hand jam crack to two good
holds below the overhang. Move right over the roof to a big ledge. Finish up the wall on the left.
Croca-Corolla HVS 5b 20m **
FA D. Millar, M. McGinty, P. Cooper July 2003
Climb the corner of Broadbinns Emporium to one-third height. Step left and climb the leftward
trending diagonal crack by a tricky mantle to start and a second mantle to reach the ledge of Start of
Something New. Finish as for Start of Something New.
Novena to St Jude E1 5b 18m
FA P. Cooper, V. Schafer & G. Carleton 19/04/08
Climb 'Broadbinn’s Emporium' to the ledge, then follow the central line up the face. An eliminate but
the top third is why its worth doing. Well protected in the right hand crack, for the top; remove 1
exposure grade if you use 'Broadbins' big crack.
Broadbinn's Emporium HS 4a 18m *
FA A. Tees, P. Robinson 08/08/92
This route takes the large right angled corner, right of the main pillar. The corner is gained by
awkward moves up the parallel cracks. Start is often guarded by brambles/briars. The trade route of
the crag!
Broadbinn's Shrimp Net Variation HS 4b 18m
FA H. Boyle 8/11/92
Gain the half way ledge on the Emporium, but move out right and climb the edge over at least two
ledges.
Right of and around the corner from Broadbinn's Emporium is a tapering rockface with a crack
running up it.
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
Apex Direct HVS 10m
FA R. Brennan 03/11/08
Climb the crack direct to join “Apex” at mid height.
Apex VS 4c 10m
FA P. Nelis, P. Smith 27/04/95
This route traverses in from the right, to gain the crack at mid height; climb this. Exit up and behind.
Bunagee Bluegrass Boys S 3c 10m
FA A. & A. Tees 27/04/95
A poor route that starts in the corner right of Apex (As in the Hustler) but continues up the wall/
corner to join Broadbinns last moves.
The Hustler VS 4b 15m *
FA V. Russell, H. Boyle, R. Dougherty 08/11/92
Climb the corner to a ledge, follow the cracks in the wall to another ledge; surmount the corner and
overhang to finish. Technical.
Moonstruck HVS 4c 10m *
FA P. Dunlop 08/11/92
The arete to the right of the Hustler.
Cap Gun Corner S 4a 10m *
FA A. & A. Tees 27/09/92
The short right angled corner to the right of Moonstruck. 
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
Expertise S 4a 10m *
FA A & A Tees 1992
Takes the right arete and crack on right hand side of butress. Pleasant climbing with a sting in the
tail.
Short Arm Crack HS 4b 10m
FA J. Healy, B. Duffy May 92
The short crack just around the corner from Expertise.
Just West of Brasil Rock is a steep West facing wall, above a stoney bay. Access from Brasil rock
through a gully by a cave.
Tridentina Uno VS 4b 20m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 08/09/08
At the seaward facing end of the crag is a cleaned area of rock leading to a tower. Start up a cleaned
approach from the very bottom, looseish, and step left into corner. Climb slab/ramp above, using
corner on left for gear and the occasional hold. Ascend up slightly right into a hanging corner, which is
climbed to a ledge below a slightly overhanging wall. Move left and up short chimney to finish. Ab
posts in-situ.
Furious Garda VS 4b 20m
FA A. Feeney, S. Diver 07/04/09
Scramble up as for "Tridentina" and gain a short crack on the right (becoming a corner) by an
awkward balancy step. Climb this to a ledge and continue, either directly up, or via a pillar on the
right, into an exposed stance in a hanging brown corner above. Gear around the corner on the left!
Continue to the top via the short chimney as per Tridentina. 
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
Hy Brasil HS 4b 20m
FA A. Tees, A. Feeney, S. Diver 07/04/09
This starts in the central crack one metre right of "Furious Garda". Climb the crack (with a long
reach), and continue up right to a ledge beside "Turin Shroud" After an awkward step to another
higher ledge, the route gives a superb finish up the exposed arete on great holds and protection.
Turin Shroud HS 4b 18m
FA unknown
This takes the prominent central line.
This route is found on Muckross Wall, a west facing crag with characteristic overhangs west of
Pinnacle Bay and faces Brazil Rock.
Ulysses S 4a 15m
FA K. Gallagher, P. Marshall, V. Russell 23/08/92
On Muckross Wall (A west facing crag with characteristic overhangs west of Pinnacle Bay and facing
Brazil Rock) there is a shallow corner towards the seaward end. Climb the left hand side of this, and
continue up a corner and flakes to the top.
Dunowen (Pinnacle Bay)
Directions: The old fishermans permissive path connecting Dunowen Wall with the other crags
beyond has been closed by the landowner. The locals are not happy about it, but nothing is likely to
be done, so use a different approach to these crags. On regaining the Culdaff/Glengad road from
Bunagee, turn right, and take the first right again, up the hill, past another turn to the right, and park in
a small quarry on the left. Just beyond this is a cart track on the edge of a field (close wire gate after
you) which leads down past a small byre, into a field, which gives access, over a tumble down wall, to
the rough ground above the shore. Brazil Rock is on the left, but turn right, cross a stream, and if the
tide is out, you can get to Pinnacle Bay around the coast by the boulders in the bay. If the tide is in it
is necessary to go over the top of the cliff, and descend a ramp under 'Himalayan Wall'.
Please do not take dogs to Dunowen. Please be careful when crossing the walls and replace any
stones that you may knock off. If you cross the land you do so at your own risk.
Map ref: C536513
Clove Rock D 10m
FA B. Bogle, C. Tees, A. Bogle, P. Coulter 20/06/92
The smaller of two pinnacles in Pinnacle Bay. Start in the gap between the two pinnacles.
The Crab's Claw VS 4c 12m
FA M. McGuigan 31/07/95
Climbs the higher of two pinnacles in the bay. Gain horizontal crack from the gap, move out left
above the sea, and continue up on small holds.
Pouting Pinnacle VD 8m
FA A. Tees & The G.P.L.
This climbs the short off-width on the west face of the pinnacle at tne East end of pinnacle bay.
Surmount the off-width on good holds, to ledge & right to top. Descent by abseil.
Thundering Typhoons HS 4b 20m
FA A. Tees, A. Mukherjee, P. Cooper 09/10/07
An Indo, Anglo, Irish route in appreciation of Capt. Haddock, on the wall just opposite "Pouting
Pinnacle" at the East end of Pinnacle bay. The route takes the obvious wide crack in the side (facing 
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
the pinnacles) wall. Start just right of the crack, then follow it to a ledge on the left, just below the top.
Up the left (thinner) crack to the top.
First and Second Thessalonians HS 4a 30m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher
In Pinnacle Bay is an obvious spur thst runs out from a vegetated cliff behind the pinnacles. Climb
the end of the spur via a shallow corner to the first pinnacle, cross the short arete to the second
Thessalonian which is climbed on its left. Belay, and csoss the secong arete and up grass to the top.
Jericho S 4a 30m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher 02/04/93
Takes the obvious pillar up the right hand side of the Thessalonians arete. Much better than it looks!
Golly's Red Corner S 4a 12m
FA K. Gallagher, A. Tees 02/04/93
A forgotten route which takes the red corner left of Jericho.
Utmost Good Faith HS 4b 30m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher 02/04/93
On the other side of the spur is a shallow cave, which is bridged to reach a ledge above. Continue on
jugs to reach a leaning pillar in a corner. Move onto the pillar and gain a small ledge above (crux).
Continue up recess to join Thessalonians. 
20
www.uniqueascent.ie
Aries VS 4c 30m
FA A. Tees, K. Gallagher 02/04/93
Approx. 3M left of Utmost Good Faith is an obvious wide clean corner at about 3m height. Gain the
corner on small holds and continue until you can make a long step left into crack, which is climbed to
ledge above the corner.. Continue straight up to join Thessalonians belay.
Ethics Be Damned VS 4c 30m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahone
Climb the crack of "Aries" from ground level.
Lobster Pot E1 5a 25m
FA A. Tees, T. Philson 09/05/99
Just left of Aries is a small triangular niche at about 3m. (Directly above a low overhang). Bridge up to
the niche and stretch to gain a good hold. Continue up over rocking flake and as difficulties ease, bear
right to avoid vegetation.
Rhumdoodle S 4a 30m *
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 19/03/2000
This starts up the prominent arete that forms the "Bend" at the left hand end of the Himalayas cliff.
Pull up over blocky spike to slab, and move up left of arete to gain ramp. Delicate moves at the top of
the ramp leads to easier climbing rightward to cleaned ledge. From far side of ledge step out right
onto exposed slab and continue to the top, exiting off a sharp edge at the top of Fulmar.
Caveat Emptor S 4a 25m
FA A.Tees, P. Smith, R. Moore, P. Cooper 07/08/02
Left of the corner, left of Carthage, is a wide crack which is climbed to a ledge. Continue up corner
above & follow bulldozer trail to grassy terrace on right. Traverse right to rocky rib, & finish as for
Rhum Doodle/Savage Slut. 
21
www.uniqueascent.ie
Dead Finger HS 4a 25m
FA A. & A. Tees
Start as for Caveat Emptor(climb jamming crack to ledge), step right & follow groove up some mostly
sound (but disturbing looking) rock, to the top.
Carthage HS 4a 30m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 19/03/2000
This takes the central crack on the "Return Wall" left of Rhumdoodle. Crux is about one third height
where a buldge in the fissure is surmounted on a good undercut.
Satanic Verses HVS 5a 30m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper. 10/08/02
At the extreme L.H.S. of the "Himalayas Area",about 10m left of Carthage,is an undercut tower. Start
below and left, scramble up to stand on a small ledge. Move right along a horizontal toe crack, and a
committing move (crux) leads to more substantial holds,& up left to corner. Continue up steeply to
jugs and ledge. Climb diedre above, keeping left of arete.
Savage Slut HVS 5a 30m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 19/03/2000
This takes the obvious cracks up the wall right of Rhumdoodle to a recess just below the top of the
wall (Rest!). Pull up onto cleaned ledge and finish as for Rhumdoodle.
My Friend John VS 4c 30m
FA B. Magowan, A. Tees 08/04/2000
Two metres right of Savage Slut, gain ledge and continue past large flake and two slabby corners. An
awkward move out of the second corner is required, before an airy step out right to climb two small
overhangs on good holds and gear. A varied route. Previously called "Polecat Retreat."
Fulmar HS 4b 25m
FA M. McGuigan, A. Tees 21/09/02
Takes the big chimney just left of Eviction Notice. Start directly below, and move up to gain short
corner (avoiding more grotty approach on right). Continue up, and chimney up the outside, (avoiding
the back) to a platform on the left. Step across right, & swing around the corner to finish up the L.H.S.
of Eviction slab.
Eviction Notice Served E3 6a 35m
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop
Takes the obvious steep undulating ramp left of Flight of Fancy. Thin, but it has a good corner crack
high on the right.
Himalayan Dream HS 4a 30m
FA A. Tees, P. Robinson 03/09/93
The original route on the wall follows a line of cracks starting one metre left of Bawg and trending
slightly leftwards to gain corner high on the wall.
Flight of Fancy HVS 5a 35m
FA A. Tees, V. Russell 03/09/93
2-3 metres left of Himalayan Dream, climb zig- zag finger cracks, and continue up the left hand edge
of the wall roughly parallel with Himalayan Dream through cleft and upper wall.
Bawg in til the Oxters Sor VS 4c 20m
FA F. McCloskey, P. Smith 16/05/99
At the right hand side of Himalayan Wall there is a triangular roofed niche just right of Himalayan
Dream. Climb crack to sloping ledge and continue up to overhang. Finish up wide stepped crack.
22
www.uniqueascent.ie
Dunowen (Campsite Area)
Directions:
Take a lane from the pier at Bunagee, (a bit rough) 5to a parking area just beyond. Walk along a path
to a picnic area with stone tables, which is a fine place to camp. There is a Promontary Fort above
and to the left, and the routes are on the various walls, inlets, and points, thereabouts. Routes are
described left-to-right.
DOG FISH BAY is the right-most / easterly bay, with climbs, and its climbs are on the left wall as you
look seawards.
Map ref: C536513
The Dungpile. VS 4c 12m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahon 09/03/99
A good route for demolition experts. Takes crack right of corner, and traverses right over loose scary
ground.
Orange Slash HS 4b 10m
FA N. Mahon, F. McCloskey 09/03/99
Look for the wee orange slash in the rock. Climb the left hand wide crack, and finish straight up, right
of fault.
The Fred Dibnah Job S 4a 8m
FA N. Mahon, F. McCloskey 10/03/99
Do a Fred job on the obvious chimney.
The Talkin Head VS 4c 8m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahon 10/03/99
The next crack right of Fred,easy start, but gets harder.
Too Feckin Short! VS 5a 5m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahon
In Dogfish Bay, this takes the slanting corner/ crackline, starting on a big ledge right of the "Fred
Dibnah" job.
The Unused Rope E1 5b 5m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahon10/03/99
Take the next crack right of T.F.S. Hard moves but good gear.
At the tip of the headland between Dogfish Bay and Ballyharry Bay is a shield-shaped slab, The
Waterboys Slab, Stooges Wall is the short dark wall on its right. Access via abseil or by a long, but
fun, low water traverse from Dog Fish Bay.
Curly VS 4c 8m *
FA P. Cooper 2001
Mantle onto start ledge and climb a steep leftward trending line which finishes at arete.
Larry HVS 5a 9m
FA P. Cooper, G. Yates 2001
Mantle onto start ledge and take line up centre of wall finish via steep overlap. Details for Curly and
Larry both submitted in 2001 but somehow lost from new Donegal guide book.
Fisherman's Blues E2 5b 10m **
FA P. Cooper, G. Yates June 1999
23
www.uniqueascent.ie
Climb via notch at base of the slab access the face, then step left off face to arrange gear (RPs rock
1). Using arete pull delicately onto slab and follow arete to top. Thin and atmospheric climbing. Direct
start added (to the left, below arete) during Climbfest 2007.
Touch VS 4c 10m
FA G. Yates, S. McDaid, N. Mahon, P. Cooper June 1999
As above, step right, and finish direct.
Voiding the Touch VS 4c 10m
FA N. Mahon, G. Yates, S. McDaid, P. Cooper June 1999
On Waterboys Slab, an obvious "Shield-like" angled slab at the end of the point at Dogfish Bay.
Descent by abseil. Through notch in lower wall, onto slab, trend right.
Don't Bang the Drum VS 5b 8m *
FA N. Machon, P. Smith, P. Cooper 27/08/03
An eliminate line with good airey moves. Use top of notch to arrange gear, descend and step right
onto toe of slab; using ripples go direct up to ramp (thin). Arrange gear on face and in crack of
'Voiding the Touch' and gingerly proceed up blank-ish slab between 'Touch' and 'Voiding.'
Ballyharry Wall is in the bay to the left of The Waterboys Slab, over its back is the wall containing
Glengad Girls etc.
Chaos S 4a 8m
FA A. Tees, 25/12/06
At the Left hand side if Ballyharry Wall, climb vertical crack to fork. Follow rightward trending off width
to small ledge, and up to top.
Bedlam S 4a 15m
FA A. Tees, PJ Monaghan, C. McLaughlin
5m right of "Chaos" gain steep rightward trending crack (at half height), by easy climbing on good
jugs. at the top of the crack, up left, to good flake/thread belay.
Pandemonium VS 4c 15m *
FA A. Tees, PJ Monaghan, C. McLaughlin 10/03/07
Right of "Bedlam", and left of "Seventeen" there is a prominent corner/chimney high on the face. This
starts almost directly below, in a steep shallow diedre, and continues up the easier slab above, to the
corner, which is mainly bridged. Good, varied, technical route.
Seventeen HVS 5a 15m
FA F. McCloskey, N. Mahone 06/10/98
On the East side of the Promentory Fort, on the East facing wall about half way out. Up crack yo
detached block, onto ledge. Move into corner for gear and to avoid dodgy looking section. Move left
and struggle up twin cracks to niche under roof of Ballyharry Buoy. Three variations now, left to rising
crack/ramp, or two more direct variations have since been cleaned.
Ballyharry Buoy HS 4a 15m **
FA N. Mahon, F. McCloskey 06/10/98
Takes the obvious corner just right of "Seventeen".
The following routes are found on the opposite wall.
Willie's Black Corner E2 5c 15m
FA W. Canning, F. McCloskey 08/08/99
Climbs a clean cut double cracked corner on the seaward face beyond Seventeen. Access is by 
24
www.uniqueascent.ie
seaward traverse or abseil at high tide or swell. Climb corner with increasing difficulty to get into
worse trouble at overhang. Crux hard, committing and precarious and needs cleaning.
Back on the same side as Ballyharry Buoy - heading out to sea
Hanging Corner E2 5c 12m
FA F. McCloskey, W. Canning 08/08/99
On the face opposite Seventeen, this takes the obvious corner, with an overhang to start. Steep start
to get established in corner, and move left at tongue. one rest point used at first ascent.
Newfoundland HS 4a 20m
FA A. Tees, M. McGuigan 17/03/01
Abseil off the end of the promentary, down a slab and wall to a large ledge. The climb takes the
obvious off width on the left hand side of the ledge (facing the crag). Begin steeply (protection on the
right) to good jugs and follow big crack up the slab.
Foot 'n' Mouth VS 4c 20m
FA M. McGuigan, A. Tees 17/03/01
A couple of metres right of Newfoundland, climb shallow corner and gain slab above by "V" shaped
notch on the right and up the middle of the slab.
St. Patrick's Fleas S 4a 20m
FA R. Harvey, C. McLaughlin 17/03/01
Climb the obvious crack right of Foot'n Mouth to ledge, surmount overhanging corner at back of ledge
to gain good cracks on RHS of slab.
Holy Deadlock D 20m
FA A. & M. Tees 06/05/01
Climb the slab right of St. Patricks Fleas, move up left onto jammed rocks and ledge. Step left again
onto slab, and continue to the top. 
25
www.uniqueascent.ie
The next climbs can be accessed from the next, and final, bay. The first climbs are tidal but can be
accessed via abseil.
Whiter Shade of Pale VS 4b 30m
Left of Angels is a small overhang capped cove. Climb cracks up the slabs at the far side to gain
arete. Turn right and continue up corner to the top.
A. Tees, M. McGuigan 17/03/01
Angels VS 4c 30m
Approx. 3m left of Kerry Widow, scramble onto broad rightward trending ramp to base of obvious
crack leading to slanting ledge. Climb the corner above, using left hand edge, and crystal pocket
above on the right, to reach a concealed jug. An awkward move to the left leads to a graveyard of
jugs and an optional chimney to the top.
A. Tees, P. Smith, A. Tees 26/05/99
Kerry Widow HVS 5a 30m *
Traversing out above the sea, left of Glengad Girls,the route takes the big left facing offwidth, in the
corner high on the face. Make an awkwagd move onto a small ramp, and continue up to the bottom of
the corner/offwidth. Bridge up as high as possible and climb the offwidth direct to good holds. Big
hexes/Friends necessary.
A. Tees, P. Smith, A. Tees 26/05/99
Honeysuckle E2 5a 25m *
Starts left of "Glengad Girls",in a niche with small roof above. Tackle this(gear on left) then continue
direct up cleaned wall on edges to small cave feature. Finishes above cave & belay is a dream(little
throne surrounded by Honeysuckle)
P. Cooper, N. Mahon
26
www.uniqueascent.ie
Glengad Girls HS 4b 30m *
Big, hairy, but not as loose as it might appear!! Almost at sea level lovate a corner, capped with an
overhang. Start up the corner but move out right on good holds to the base of an obvious line of
weakness. The crux is about 2/3 height where a delicate step out left from the corner to the wall.
Thread runner above, and a narrow chimney leads to the top.
A. Tees, P. Smith 27/04/99
Jigs and Reels HVS 5a 30m
Climbs the cleaned face between 'Graina's Groove' and 'Blondes have more fun'. Due to 'blankness'
in the mid-section it's necessary to divert right at mid-height to use large holds at the edge of, and
gear in, 'Graina's Groove' before continuing up the face.
P. Cooper, A. Tees 23/10/07
Blondes (Have more fun) VS 4c 30m **
About 3m right of Glengad Girls (and left of Grainas Groove)start at the next small corner and climb
directly up, until a dynamic move is made onto the top of a small pillar. The crux is a poorly protected
pull up on two slots. Finish up a well defined corner. Delicate and technical with just adequate
protection.
Alan & Andrew Tees, P. Smith, 26/05/99
Graina's Groove HS 4b 22m
Obvious groove 3m left of Miss Conception. Crux is eroded overhang half way up.
A. Tees, M. McGinty 03/08/00
Miss Conception S 4a 20m
At the right hand side of Dunowen West Wall is a fault line with a buldge at one quarter height.. This 
27
www.uniqueascent.ie
is the crux, easier climbing, and a bramble, above.
A. Tees, M. McGinty 03/08/00
Mingus Eyes VS 4b 22m
Taked the rib mid way between Miss Conception and Grainas Groove. Move up to a narrow hanging
corner, which is climbed, before trending right to gain the rib. Continue to the top.
M. McGinty, P. Smith 03/08/00
Dreapadoireachta HS 4b 20m
Two metres right of "Miss Conception" steep short wall, (Thin spike on top) leads to a rightward
trending ramp. Follow this to twin cracks and ledge. Up left to top.
P. Cooper, A. Tees April 07
Fernenst S 4a 20m
4 metres right of "Dreap" at base of big slanting ramp. climb up left to corner, which is climbed
leftwards, and continue to ledge and directly to the top over large stepped rocks.
A. Tees, P. Cooper 23/08/07
Now go across to the opposite side of the bay, the left hand side as you look seaward.
Kernaptious Corner HS 4c 8m *
Other side of the bay and just opposite "Misconception" is a short layback corner. Climb this to a
platform, with a choice of finishes, the left one being easier and the one used on the first ascent, due
to lack of light, lack of pre cleaning, and possibly cowardise!
A, Tees, M. McGinty 24/04/08
Hellfire and Herring E1 5b 8m **
Down on the left, as you look in from the land, a steep 8M arete can be found that has a pair cracks,
which become 3 at the top. Scramble up right to ledge and climb these. Belay well back.
G. Carleton, M. Hasson 06/05/08
Dunmore Head, Left Crags.
Directions: These are the outcrops left of the highest and most popular crag. They are described left
to right, but further left again are shorter rocks around the gap leading to the head. These outcrops
need regular attention to prevent them becoming overgrown and difficult of access. Beyond the gap,
is a seaward facing wall, with a couple of routes excavated therefrom, most of which are very poor
quality. The only quality route being "Black Perception"
Map ref: C550498
To the far left of the Dunmore's Main Crags is a short gully, at he right hand edge of the wall on the
gully's right is 'Flakes'.
Flakes HS 4c 4m
FA P. Cooper
Step onto boulder in a small niche, arrange slings round dubious looking pair of flakes; climb up and
finish up left trending ramp/corner.
Slab and crack VD 7m *
FA P. Cooper
To the right of Flakes, on the face there's a slab and erm well...a crack. Route goes...I'll let you work
it out! On-sight solo, then cleaned.
Right of 'Slab and Crack' is a blank wall, the following climbs are on the short face right of this.
28
www.uniqueascent.ie
Whin Some Lose Some VS 5a 7m
FA P. Cooper, A. & A.Tees 22/09/02
Leftmost crack and everything left of it. Situated at left hand end of Whin Buttress.
Whin Buttress Easy D 7m
FA P. Cooper & S. McDaid
Right hand side of the buttress.
Whin Buttress Central route S 4b 7m
FA P. Cooper & S. McDaid
Central line up Buttress between main crack and the right hand corner.
Revenge of the Whins S 4b 7m
FA P. Cooper & S. McDaid
Line between up main crack and face, not using the high corner. "Removal of lots of whins on this
buttress led to it's present cleaned condition, it was painful!"
The true Left Hand Crag. 'Fruits...' starts beneath a pinnacle at the left hand end.
Fruits of one's labours VS 4c 9m *
FA P. Cooper & A. Tees 04/12/04
At the left hand of the crag there is a sentinel, start below this at a fine crack and a detatched block
climb these, at the top go for exposed face/top out to the left.
February Freeze-up S 4a 10m **
FA M. Patton, P. Flood
Climb crack at left of the overhang, gain a wider crack then up left to corner leading to the top.
29
www.uniqueascent.ie
Anorexia VS 4c 10m *
FA P. Turley 07/04/84
Takes the deep crack through overhang 3m right of February Freeze-up. Only for the slender figure.
Subduction Zone E2 6a 10m *
FA A. Millar, P. Dunlop 17/05/87
The gash in the overhang right of 'Anorexia' and left of 'How Do Chimney'. Make some moves up to a
ledge. Advance upwards with difficultly to a good hand hold and a large nut, continue bridging to a flat
hold high on the right; difficulties are over for the time being when you get stood on this.
How Do Chimney HVS 5b 10m *
FA P. Cooper, B. Wingham 19/04/05
Left of 'Scratch' is a left facing corner, climb up this, step out onto right-hand buttress to gain
bottomless chimney.
Scratch S 4a 10m
FA P. Turley, G. Ellis 12/05/85
Start at detached pinnacle about 5m right of Anorexia. Climb short steep wall to cleaned ledge. Up
easily to long ledge. Step right to twin cracks, up these to top.
Snatch S 4a 8m
FA P. Turley 13/05/85
To the right of Scratch, a variety of routes lead easily to the foot of a crescent shaped crack. Climb
this to the top.
The Clegg VS 4c 8m *
FA A. Tees, P. Smith 12/08/97
Dynamic climbing up the overhanging arete to the left of 'Tiger Balm', using undercuts and spikes.
Tiger Balm S 4a 8m
FA A. Tees, P. Smith 23/02/97
Right of the left crag there is a short bulging face. This takes the steep corner at the right hand side.
The crag becomes broken, until 'Daddy Bear'; which lies to the left of the clean corner that contains
the start of 'Ivy Slalom'.
Big Bockan Crack VD 15m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan
Five Metres left of "Ivy Slalom" the slab is split by a big easy off-width. Climb this, and up corner
above to ledge, and up right to the top.
Daddy Bear VD 12m *
FA J Rotherham, G Hamilton
The route at the right edge of the white slab.
Ivy Slalom HS 4b 12m *
FA J. Rotherham, B. Patton, M. Patton
1m right of the white slab, and just left of the overhangs, is a right-angled corner which is climbed.
Continue up easier ground to a wall right of short gully. Climb wall on small but good holds. A good
climb. The left arete goes at about 5a. *Wall with sharp pocket, left of I.S.'s start also about 5a. HVS
5b Highball, 2m r. of I.S. are a pair of parallel cracks, undercut at base, pull up these onto face and go
up to broken ledge; gear is minimal
Egg-and-Spoon Race E2 5c 12m *
FA P. Dunlop, B. Martin Summer 1989
30
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start at the corner/groove right of Ivy Slalom. Climb easily up to the big break below the overhang.
Climb up through the groove above on unfriendly jams. (crux)
Girding someone-else's loins E1 5c 17m
FA P. Cooper & M. McGinty 20/04/07
As for 'Egg and Spoon Race' until a step right can be made onto the toe of the slab on the right. A
diagonally-rising-traverse goes up to a shallow corner, continue rightwards to gain the horizontal
break; finish as for 'Pretty and Pink'.
Pretty and Pink E2 6a 12m *
FA A. Millar, D. Millar 1997
Between Egg and Spoon Race and Peewee Runt, and with difficulty, place small nuts in opposition
and move up with aid of small crack about 1 m left of 'Peewee'to claim slab. Continue to break and
move leftward through weakness in overhang to top.
Peewee Runt & his Dixieland Flea Band E2 6a 12m
FA A. Millar, G. Colhoun 1988
This route climbs through the triangular niche at the right-hand side of the overhang, left of Snakes
and Ladders. Start as for Snakes and Ladders. Go up the short slab, and then up the awkward crack
on the left to a rest below the overhang. Climb on awkwardly through the niche on poor finger-locks to
the top.
Snakes and Ladders VS 4c 12m
FA J. Rotherham, B. McDermott
Climb the slab avoiding the overhangs by slipping rightwards through the keyhole and out onto spike.
Step out left and pull up to finish (crux).
Garryowen S 4a 20m
FA A. Tees, M. McGuigan 22/03/08
The slab of "Snakes & Ladders" and up into corner before traversing left below the overhangs all the
way across to the top of 'Ivy Slalom's' start.
Boomerang VD 12m
FA B. Patton, M. Patton
This goes up the arete and rib at the right-hand side of the crag.
The Seaward Crag
Go through the gully at the far left end of the crag and continue walking (1 minute) until you can look
up right to a high crag leading up to the skyline.
31
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Hillwalker Strikes Back HS 4b 30m
FA A. Tees, G. Colhoun July 89
The first route climbs the wall left of the taller, left-hand corner. "The Hillwalker Strikes Back",starts at
the centre of the steep, clean wall left of the higher corner. Move up past cracks to gain the left-hand
edge of the ramp of the corner (crux). Continue up the edge and climb the wall above on good holds
and jams to gain an exposed arete. Climb the arete over steps, the first one being dubious, to the top.
Black Perception S 4a 25m
FA A. Tees, S. Hamilton 01/06/89
This route climbs the left-hand corner. Float up it until it becomes vertical just below a dubiouslooking
spike. Move up left of the spike and step across right onto a ledge to finish. Good route, and probably
the only one worth doing in this part of the cliff.
Verdance VD 20m
FA A. Tees, V. Russell 08/06/89
The shorter right-hand corner.
Gofrit S 4a 8m
FA G. Colhoun, J. Watt, K. Colhoun July 89
This rips up the short, steep wall right of Verdance.
Dunmore Head
The most popular crag in Inishowen, owing to its convenience and the huge concentration of routes
at all grades, some of which are excellent.
32
www.uniqueascent.ie
Directions: In the centre of Culdaff village there is a small village green and Post Office where the
Coastal Scenic Road joins the main Moville/ Culdaff Road. Follow this coastal road east from Culdaff
village for approx. 3km. Ample parking can be had at the car park opposite the caravan park, or (for a
few cars only) in a small parking space above the bend in the road opposite the crag. Take care not to
block access to house or the road/track to the small port below.
Map ref: C550498
The white slab at the right hand of Main Crag, right of alcove.
Toenails S 4a 12m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 30/03/10
Start about a metre left of the big central crack of "Caratra Crack" and move leftwards following a thin
crackline, which leads to a bigger crack towards the top. Belay in niche More Details (0 Comments)
Tweezers S 4a 12m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 30/03/10
Start as for "Toenails" but continue straight up in a line between "Caratra Crack" and "Toenails" Nice
climbing on small holds.
Caratra Crack VD 3c 14m
FA A. Tees, B. Magowan 30/03/10
This takes the wide crackline in the centre of the slab, and just left of "Dusty Mayday."
Dusty Mayday VD 14m
FA S. McDonald, B. Patton
33
www.uniqueascent.ie
The white slab left of obvious alcove on the left-hand side of the Middle Crag. The route goes up the
centre of the white stab.
OXO in October S 15m *
FA B. McDermott, P. McDermott
Start 1m right of Dusty Mayday. Takes the right edge of the white slab.
Next climbs are in alcove to right.
The Wurlitzer E2 6a 10m *
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop Spring 1991
The big roof at the back of the alcove left of Calamity Collins. Climb up the slab to roof, move out to a
hovering block left of the roof crack (takes F1.5 + F2). Move excitingly up to a waltzing block on the
lip, and up into a position of contemplation above the roof. Continue to the top passing various holds
on the way.
Millar's Mills Ltd., 07448133 HVS 5b 10m
FA N. Grimes, A. Mlllar Dec 91
Suppliers of high-quality agri-chemicals. Climb steeply into and up the left-hand groove to the right of
the roof (F0.5 or F1 protect the crux bulge). Ireland's first sponsored rock-climb, and the start of a new
era of professionalism in the sport.
Zipper VS 5b 10m
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop 03/10/87
The groove right of Millar's Mills and left of Calamity Collins (F0.5/F1 protects crux).
Calamity Collins VS 4c 14m *
FA B. McDermott, P. Flood
In the right hand corner of the alcove climb up to gain crack and continue up into slightly overhanging
corner to finish knackered!
Ten CC E1 5b 15m **
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop 23/08/87
Excellent varied climbing with an exposed finish. Start in short corner about 1m right of Calamity
Collins. Thrutch up this to the small overhang. Move round left here to the thin crack in the wall, which
is climbed with the aid of thin flakes and without the aid of Calamity Collins. Finish using the crack and
arete to the top, with space being the most obvious thing between your legs!
On right of alcove and left of Main Slab is a v-groove.
Peapob VS 4b 18m **
FA B. McDermott, J. Rotherham
This route takes the obvious chute 3m right of the alcove, moving out left and climbing the left of the
upper cracks.
Bean Bob VS 4c 18m *
FA T. McDaid, J. Rotherham.
As for Peapob but taking the right-hand crack at the top.
Now your at the left end of the steep and beautiful slab.
Fluid Inclusions HVS 5a 18m **
FA A. Millar, G. Millar Sept 86
Splendid airy climbing up left arete of Main Slab. Start as for Bean Bob, climb arete (good F1.5 at half 
34
www.uniqueascent.ie
height). Delicately step right onto the slab below the big overhang (large friends). Climb up, then step
back left for difficult move up into small finishing groove.
Thank You and Goodbye E3 6a 18m **
FA N. Grimes, B. Dunlop, J. Hutton 19/10/90
Bold then strenuous climbing up the slab and overhang right of Fluid Inclusion's finish. Start as for
Wall Rock Alterations. Pull up onto the slab on left, over first small roof (F7.5 on the left here). Climb
boldly and directly up through the two overlaps to below the big overhang (Big friends); climb it to a
tiny groove. Finish up this. With a move somewhat akin to riding a donkey, this is an excellent
eliminate.
Wall Rock Alterations E1 5b 20m ***
FA A. Millar, G. Millar Sept 86
Offering delicate and open climbing with an exposed feel. Start at the little groove left of Shining
Cossacks, climb up the groove to a bulge and excellent protection. Step up left here onto the slab and
move daintily away from the protection. Go leftwards as far as the final groove of Fluid Inclusions (big
friends). Finish up Fluid Inclusions. This route, along with the previous two, unfortunately suffers from
hairy growth in parts.
Eddie Springsteen E2 6a 18m
FA E. Cooper, N. Grimes Spring 1991
An alternative finish to some of the routes hereabouts.
Go over the roof into the obvious rightward-slanting groove on the right-hand side of Main Face's
overhang, friend-protected.
Texas Badman E1 5b 18m
FA A. Millar, N. Grimes 1988
35
www.uniqueascent.ie
Follow Wall Rock Alterations to the delicate step up onto the slab. Follow the little arete up and
rightwards to a junction with Shining Cossacks and finish up this. Nice positions, but little new
climbing.
Shiny Cossacks HVS 5a 22m **
FA P. Neary, I. Ryan
Start 4m right of Bean Bob, under a slab, 1 m to the left of an overhanging V groove. Make an
awkward move to gain slab. Climb diagonally leftwards to knob and then rightwards to brown patch
beneath overhang. Exit to the right of the overhang and continue as for Diversion.
Ray's Fish and Chips S 4a 18m
FA R. Dunlop 1989
Climb through the deep v-slot left of Diversion to a flat quartzy hold,and continue up to join Diversion
to finish.
Fishy business VS 4c 16m
FA P. Cooper 21/06/03
Step up onto hanging slab on r.hand side of 'Ray's fish n chips' to quartz overlap, continue directly up
centre of slab, through diversion and up centre of above slab with a step right onto short final slab.
Diversion HS 4b 20m **
FA J. Rotherham, M. Patton
Start 1m right of the overhanging V groove is bottomless chimney. Climb bottomless chimney to gain
ledge and, at mid height, continue out leftwards following crack on fine jug handles past nest to finish.
Tina's Crack HS 17m
FA J. Rotherham, M. Patton
Start 1m right of Diversion. Climb crack using bridging and some jamming to gain large ledge at midheight.
Continue directly up over overhangs and ledges to top.
Master of Puppets HVS 5b 15m
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop, N. Mooney
The roof right of Tina's Crack and left of Grecian Gift. Up crack to ledge, up slab to thin traverse right
under roof before feeling for the weakness and pulling over the lip onto the slab.
Grecian Gift VS 4c 15m **
FA J. Rotherham, B. McDermott
2m right of Tina's Crack and to the left of the detached block is a steep right-ward trending crackline
with great moves and stretchy finish.
The arete to the right has been soloed by 'P. Dunlop at about E5 6b.
The right hand end of the Main Face now steps back forming a corner for Orange Blossom.
Orange Blossom HS 4b 15m
FA M. Buchanan, D. Buchanan
2m Right of Grecian Gift. Takes the obvious corner crack to the top (orange coloured rock on left
hand side).
The face on right is a delight at HVS 5a - without holds or gear in O.B.
Barbara's Baby S 4a 13m
FA B. McDermott
1 m right of Orange Blossom, climb the offwidth chimney on right of the slab, stepping left onto slab
higher up. Given severe if you have good offwidth technique, if not it’s a thrutch fest!
36
www.uniqueascent.ie
Un-Named VS 5a/5b 13m
FA R. Macallister 03/06/08
Starting right of barbaras baby and left of cheatin bitch, follow the arete to overhang use the crack to
gain a ledge follow the tricky finish around the top arete.
Cheatin' Bitch S 3c 13m *
FA J. Rotherham, G. Hamilton Dec 81
Start 2m right of Barbara's Baby, on the left-hand side of the gully. Handjam and layback up deep
crack into bay above. Continue up, and exit left of slab.
Chockstone Gully D 14m
FA B. McDermott
Follows the obvious large gully at the centre of The Middle Crag, with a large chockstone at midheight.

The large slab.
S.R.S. Slab D 15m *
FA B. McDermott, M. McDermott
Goes up the centre of the moderately angled white slab immediately right of Chockstone Gully.
Standard route for beginners.
The next climbs start to right of SRS Slab, starts are in small gully behind warm-up boulder.
Belfast Blitz Boys MS 13m
FA P. Grant
Starts in a bottomless V-shaped chimney about 1 m right of S.R.S. Slab and goes up the edge at the
top.
Tetley Mild VS 5a 11m
FA P. Cooper and M.McGinty 18/09/02
The vague arete on right of Belfast Blitz Boys. Exposed climbing direct to horizontal crack, some
protection in v-groove 1m right. Finish above.
AWOL S 4b 15m
FA P. Cooper Spring 1999
Ascend initial corner of Absent friends, use horizontal holds on r.hand slab to gain arete; finish on
Just a pleasant saunter up a nice line!
Absent Friends VD 15m *
FA B. McDermott, M. McDermott
Takes the obvious large cleft/chimney 3m right of Belfast Blitz Boys. Numerous variations.
Absent Friends Five HS 4b 15m *
FA B. Patton, P. Grant
In a small corner/recess above and right warm-up boulder and left of Bluebelle. Climb up to
horizontal crack, then left go left to crack by arete. High stretch for thank God hold, follow edge to top.
Bluebelle D 12m
FA A. Tees 2000
The clean corner with crack.
Bird's nest bulge S 4a 12m *
FA B. McDermott, B. Patton
37
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start part way up Bluebelle to climb cracks in bulging wall on left, follow these to gain vertical
finishing crack in headwall above. Some superb moves for grade.
S.O.S. D 12m
FA F. Ferry, M. McDermott 1980
Left-most route on slab right of 'Bluebelle' corner.
Sharp Practise VD 12m
FA A. Tees, R. Smith 15/05/83
This takes the edge between X Route and S.O.S.
X Route VD 12m
FA B. McDermott, G. Ellis 1980
Just left of Coca-Cola. Starts in a recess about 3m right of 'Sharp Practice'.
Coca-Cola D 12m
FA G. Ellis, M. McDermot 1980
This is the furthest right of four routes on the slab.
Finbarr Wall
Directions: A delightful cragette. To get to it from the top of the main crag, go over the headland in a
North-East direction until you arrive at the top of the crag overlooking the sea. Alternatively walk to the
immediate skyline (above the main crag) and go through the gate, below and right, follow the path on
the wall's l.hand side; towards the sea. This approach gains the base of the crag easily.
The routes are now described from left to right.
Map ref: C357500
Tweeter and the Monkey man HS 4b 12m *
FA A. Tees, P. McConnell 01/07/07At the left end of Finbarr Wall is a pillar with a block at the top, just
left of a big nest. Start just under, and climb a faint arete slightly rightwards, to reach a steep cracked
wall. Exit via a mantleshelve onto the block at the top.
Grunting 'n' slapping E1 5b 8m *
FA P. Cooper & D. Millar 01/06/07
3m left of 'Waiting for Cyril'.On the left of the flared rough cracks is smoother equally steep rock
forming an apex to the rockface Climb towards the top spike, making a thin move left onto the smooth
slab to finish. (Belay just below the final top-out.)
38
www.uniqueascent.ie
4m right of this is the regular-cut corner crack of 'Waiting for Cyril'.
Waiting for Cyril VD 12m **
FA A. Tees, M. Pailing 23/05/91
Climb the corner obvious clean cut corner.
The Donkey Derby VS 4c 12m
FA F. Dympna, T. Flynn 25/05/91
Climb the slabby wall/arete on the right of 'Waiting for Cyril'.
Granny Long Legs HVS 5a 12m **
FA A. Millar, N. Grimes 25/05/91
This climbs up and into the hanging corner left of The Nameless. Steeply jam and bridge up this,
exiting right at the top.
The Nameless VS 5b 12m
FA R Dunlop, P Dunlop 1988
This climbs the line a couple of metres left of the corner of a big spike. Continue directly into a niche
and over the overhang on blocky holds. One in the eye for over-graders.
Zodiac E2 5c 12m **
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop 1988
Pumpy, satisfying climbing up the groove left of Other Fish. Start on top of the big boulder. Go up the
little corner and step left onto the little ramp. Up this, and straight up the steep wall above using
handfuls of rough holds. Exciting. 
39
www.uniqueascent.ie
Other Fish E4 6b 13m **
FA N Grimes, B Callan, P Dunlop (all led) June 91
The steep, blank-looking, wall between 'Zodiac' and 'RuthIess People'. Boulder up on positive holds
to get stood on these. Gear in fine horizontal break. A perplexing rock-up up and right leads to a good
hold shared with 'Ruthless People'. Traverse left to a vertical crack, proceed up this to finish. At the
upper end of the grade.
Ruthless People E4 6b 10m **
FA N. Grimes, A. Millar 25/05/91
Desperate climbing up the crack on the right, strenuous and fingery. Start at the bottom of the grass
ramp. A bout of sporadic snatching allows upward momentum, past a couple of wires (hard to place)
and a good hold to be caught on the horizontal break left of the crack. Place small wires here, and
strike on directly to the top.
Pushing String E2 5b 8m *
FA P. Cooper & G. Thomas 24/05/09
To the right of Ruthless People and 1/2 way up the descent corner place a belayer. The climber now
climbs a leftward traversing route, until below a step in the headwall; climb up to this for finish. A
deceptively pumpy line, otherwise it would be E1.
The next climb is across to the right, in the first square-cut corner.
Calamari Corner VD 4b 12m *
FA P. Cooper 14/05/07
Corner of first bay right of 'Ruthless People'.
Across to the right is the next route, Mosquito, is on a pillar of rock. Dunmore Damage is the route on
the clean wall to the right.
Mosquito S 4a 10m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 14/05/07
5m left of "Dunmore Damage" is a stepped arete. Climb the first step by a leaning rightward trending
crack. Up onto another block and up the groove on the arete.
Dunmore Damage S 4a 12m *
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 19/04/07
The next niche left of Finbarrs Furry Fissure. Up onto jammed rock, right to ledge and straight up the
face just left of the arete.
Finbarr's Furry Fissure S 4a 12m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 19/04/07
The prominent fist crack just left of "Redford Classic". Overcome buldge, up crack easily (great
thread on the edge). At the top of the crack step left and finish up fine airy rock.
Redford Classic S 4a 12m **
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 18/04/07
Right, and below the other routes, but on the same rockband, is a prominent corner, overhung half
way up. Bridge up to the overhang to gain good jugs, and continue up the corner on delightful rock.
Inishtrahull HS 4b 12m *
FA P. Cooper, A. Tees 18/04/07
Centre of wall, on immediate right of redford Classic. Start at the toe of the short slab, continue
through small overlaps; direct direct for the top. Nice one-star line, with a scenic top-out; depending
on the weather.
40
www.uniqueascent.ie
Blonde Moments S 4a 12m
FA P. McConnell, A. Tees 01/07/07
Takes the external corner right of Redford Classic, and just right of Inistrahull.
Dun Bheag Crack VD 10m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 14/05/07
About 10m further right from "Redford Classic" is an obvious crackline on the right wall of a corner.
Climb the thin crack, step right and continue up it's big sister.
Warm Bay Point
Directions: Access to the crag can be gained via following the coastal road between Tremone Bay
and Kinnagoe Bay. Take directions for Kinnagoe Bay (see Donegal Guide). Take a signposted turn off
left for Culdaff, 500m before the turn for Kinnagoe crag. Drive for approximately 1.15 miles to a
section of open farmland and park next to a green gate. Hop over the seaward wall and continue over
field at first and then heather to a jutting peninsula. This is Warm Bay Point, the crag lies on the lower
eastern flank as your looking northwards/out to sea. Descend the steep heather via a cultivated path
to the crag. Three areas of rock have been developed to date. An upper, middle and lower crag, the
latter being tidal.
Map ref: C630470
The Upper Wall Climbs
No More Kenny HVS 5a 20m
FA A. Millar D. Millar 05/06/04
This is on the "Upper Wall". Continue up the hill (avoiding brambles) past "Middle Wall" It starts as for
"Cyclops" and climbs crack straight to the top. Finishing pleasantly up a thin finger crack on right, or
more easily up short body width crack on left. 
41
www.uniqueascent.ie
I was Belayed by a Cyclops HVS 5b 20m
FA A. Millar, D. Millar, S. Hamilton 04/06/04
On Upper Crag, climbs the next crag left of Scabby Tales. At Half height traverse right a few metres
to reach large flake and straight up good crack above.
Scabby Tails and Sexuality HVS 5b 18m *
FA A. Millar, J. Boyle, P. Cooper 01/03/03
Takes the slightly left trending crack near the right side of Upper Wall. The crack thins before half
height and a thin well protected move leads to easier rock, and soon after, the top.
Next climbs are on the wall up and right of 'Scabby Tails.'
Bee Eater S 4a 12m
FA M. McGuigan B. McGowan Sept 05
Start as for "BeeLine" but this curves off left and up to very careful exit.
Bee Line VD 12m
FA A. Tees, P. McConnell Sept 2005
About 5m left of Wheelbarra, a longer similar crack.
Dementia VS 4b 12m
FA A. Tees, PJ Monaghan, P. McConnell 19/04/09
Start about 2 m left of "Wheelbarra Crack" and climb the steepening wall to where two diagonal
cracks rise left wards, just below, and parallel to, the top. Move up left using these for hand and
footholds.
Wheelbarra Crack D 8m
FA P. McConnell, A. Tees Sept 05
This takes the shortest wide crack on the upper wall above Punic Palace etc
Awristocrack S 4a 12m *
FA A Tees 6/05/09
The "Tombstone" is the aptly named pillar slab left of the slab containing "Machinegun Kelly," This
route takes the "Wrist width" crack up the left side.
Wan fut in the Grave VS 4b 12m **
FA A. Tees, M. McGuigan 13/06/09
This takes the lovely right edge of the "Tombstone" Delicate and well protected.
Mittellegi Blues VD 4a 50m ***
FA A. Tees, M. Mcguigan 13/06/09
A "traditional" VDiff route with an Alpine feel to it, and very varied climbing in good situations.
Scramble up right of the "Tombstone" into a bay at the right hand side of the wall containing "I was
belayed by a Cyclops" etc. Climb the crack leading to the ridge above and continue left, up the
exposed ridge to belay at the top. Climb the Gendarme behind, and finish up the wall either behind
the gendarme, or further left, just left of a short chimney, belay at a big leaning rock.
The next climbs are on the face to the left of The Main Face. The eye-catching arete is 'Jackass'.
Access via abseil or scramble approach to Main Wall's seaward end.
Garwallah S 4a 12m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 13/05/08
One metre left of "machinegun Kelly" climb just right of corner to ledge on left at 2/3 height. Continue
to the top. 
42
www.uniqueascent.ie
Machinegun Kelly VS 4c 12m **
FA A. Tees 16/05/04
Climb the Left hand crack line.
Punic Palace VS 4c 12m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper, D. Ryan, B. Mcgowan 22/05/04
Climb the central crack line about 2m right of "Machinegun Kelly."
Face Climb HVS 5a 12m
FA P. Cooper, D. Ryan 22/05/04
Middle Crag, left face. Face between 'Punic Palace' and 'Jackass' slightly run-out in upper/crux area,
finish on face to right of the top crack.
Jackass E2 5b 16m **
FA D. Millar, P. Cooper March 2003
Follows the arete to the left of the main face on the second tier. Climb the arete with the aid of a
crack on the left wall to a sloping ledge at three quarters height. Step down and right to a ledge below
a short steep crack. Climb this on good jams to the top. Belay well back.
The next climbs are on The Main Face. Access via abseil or scramble approach to Main Wall's
seaward end.
Rockstown Rumble E1 5b 16m **
FA A. Millar , J. Boyle, P.Cooper 01/03/03
Takes the obvious crack line going up the middle of the clean slab of Middle Wall.
The next climbs are on The Seaward Wall, the large wall below and right of The Main Face. Access
via scramble approach at Main Wall's seaward end and then down again. These climbs are tidal.
43
www.uniqueascent.ie
High Stakes S 4a 60m
FA M. McGuigan, A. Tees July 2005
Traverse left to right across the upper wall.
Croaghdoo Girdle VD 25m
FA A. Millar, J. Sittlington 07/12/03
A rising traverse left to right on the lower sea wall with fine airy situations out over the sea. Belaying
from the last boulder before the sea, set out across ledge and on to obvious handflake, cross this
(Crux) to reach a stance above a short chimney rising out of the sea. Follow the obvious line of
weakness rising rightward and follow it to finish.
Ace of Spades VD 4a 12m *
FA A. & P. Tees
At the centre of the sea wall is a square depression. Climb straight up from its right hand side, and
follow obvious cleaned groove to the top.
Two of Clubs S 4a 20m
FA M. McGuigan & A. Tees
This takes the first of two prominent crack lines at the highest part of the wall. Crux at the start.
Scannan na Seachtan HVS 5a 15m *
FA D. Millar 20/05/04
The high point of the seaward crag. At start of large foot ledge is a flake, climb it's face and head up
to crack which splits the centre of the high point.
Dusty Zebra V.Diff 12m
FA B. Mcgowan, D. Ryan 22/05/04
6m right of the leaning block, climb the deepest crack on this area of the face. Belay well back, after
grassy finish.
American Pie VS 4c 12m
FA D. Millar & P. Cooper March 2003
Follows the broken cracks to the left of Scannan na Seachtan.
Ramona S 10m
FA P. Cooper, D. Millar Feb 2003
Seaward Crag. 2M r. of large leaning boulder follow cleaned cracklines on face, to niche area,
beware exposed grassy finish.
Soap Hopera VS 4c 12m
FA D. Millar & P. Cooper March 2003
Follows the broken cracks on the left hand side of the lowest tier.
Dungloon (Kinnego)
Directions: Kinnego Bay.The various cliffs around the headlands and islands of Dungloon provide
good quality climbing in all grades. The longest routes are on the 'Galleon' - a high stack, and are up
to 40m in height.
From Moville take the Culdaff Road. Approx 5km from Moville the rd forks at Doherty's Bar, take the R
fork. Turn R at the chapel. Follow this rd for approx 6km and turn L just before the steep hill to the
beach. Walk N along field edges to the top of the cliffs and take a steep descent path.
Map ref: C630470
44
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Floating World E2 5c 18m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 30/08/89
The excellent arete L of Bedform. Accessible at low tide only. Takes the arete all the way. Climber
can be well protected by small wires and friends. Belayer can be well protected by wetsuit.
Bedform Dynamics E1 5b 18m
FA A. Millar, P. Dunlop, N. Grimes 17/05/87
Nice climbing on good rock. Take crack just L of Austin's Window. When crack peters out traverse L
to arete and take this to top.
Austin's Window E1 5b 18m **
FA C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 1980
At the left hand end of the wall facing the sea climb the long fine crack.
Dubloons S 10m *
FA A. Tees, R. Wray 12/06/80
Takes the thin crack right of Austin's Window. Surmount overhang, step left onto flake and up to
finish.
Michelle X D 8m
FA B. McDermott, M. McDermott 1979
Goes up the shallow groove approx 3m right of Dubloons. 
45
www.uniqueascent.ie
Clingin' in the Rain HS 18m
FA A. Tees, A. Ward 14/06/84
This route is on the left hand side of the "Black Wall" West of the "Crow's Nest". Start: At the centre
of the wall left of Foyle Street. Climb obvious crack continuing up corner and slab to the top.
Staveni pyramid S 20m
FA I. Krella, G. McWhirter 10/10/2010
The route starts as for Clingen in the rain but going rightwards up across the wall where joins Die
wrecked for about 2m and then going strait up under small corner and from there steps right on the
edge and following it to the top.
The Haven VS 4c 18m
FA M. Rea, I. Rea 27/08/89
Start 2m right of Clingin' in the Rain. Climb directly up to spikes. Traverse right, then back up left into
v-shaped niches. Exit from these and go up to a short left-facing corner. Up this for a few metres, then
swing right onto the arete to finish.
Le Grand Ennui E1 5b 18m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 27/08/89
Start as for The Haven. Climb up to spikes. Traverse left and climb steeply up grey discoloration until
its possible to step left into Clingin' in the Rain. Now climb steeply right across a fault to gain the last
moves of Foyle Street and finish.
Foyle Street VS 4b 18m *
FA J. Rotherham, T. McDaid 11/05/80
Start L end of cliff of Young Whymper. Climb the leftward trending crackline to the overhang (2m
below the top), make a straddle move to gain position under overhang, undercuts allow one to stand
up and a high step left leads into final crack. 
46
www.uniqueascent.ie
Die Wrecked S 18m
FA J. Rotherham, M. Manson Aug 1980
Right of Foyle Street, start at a small alcove. Climb bulge in wall, continue up slight overhang split by
crack.
El Gecko HS 8m
FA A. Tees, A. Ward, R. Smith 12/06/83
This route takes the central cracks on the outcrop below and right of Maeve and Lucy. More awkward
than it appears with a poor exit.
Planters' Plunder VS 4b 18m
FA D. Stelfox, M. Manson Aug 1980
Takes a crack up centre of the wall R of Foyle Street and L of Young Whymper exiting R over the
overhang. Crux at start.
Young Whymper VS 4b 10m
FA B. McDermott, J. Rotherham 1979
10m L of Pattoned, the angle of the wall becomes less steep forming a corner. About halfway on its L
side is a slightly overhanging corner which can be laybacked. Move right to exit.
Fuschia HS 4b 15m
FA M. Rea, I. Rea 27/08/89
Start in the niche directly below Young Whymper. Climb steeply up a fault/crack to a niche at 5m.
Step R and finish up the arete.
Pan S 4a 15m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 27/05/89
The arete a few metres L of Pattoned. Start at its very base. Continue via good crack and finish by
traversing L of pinnacle at top.
Pattoned VD 15m
FA B. Patton, M. Patton 1979
Climb the obvious corner at the R end of Black Wall surmounting bulging block at the top.
The Crow’s Nest
Rusty Rigging S 25m
FA J. Rotherham, P. Grant 1979
Directly opposite the Black Wall is a prominent sea stack known as the 'Crow's Nest'. The route takes
the left-hand side of the stack starting from the platform.
Flake Sake HVS 5a 20m
FA S. Read M. Sweeney Climbfest 2006
Interesting climbing starting about 3 meters left of midnight dilemma. Fight your way up through a
dusty big hole about 2 meters off the floor. Continue up the crack above, moving right to finish up
easier ground for the final 3 meters. (Direct finish awaits) 
47
www.uniqueascent.ie
Midnight Dilemma E1 5b 20m *
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dun/op 17/06/87
This one wicks its wicked way up the fragile face facing Forked Lightning. It takes the crack in the
centre of the wall. Move Up holey rock to a steep section. Pass this (crux) to a ledge. Continue up the
crack to the top. Belay, and abseil off a block on the summit. A sling was originally in place around
this, but a cow is thought to have eaten it. To the right of Midnight Dilemma and round the corner is a
narrow wall where the next two routes are situated.
All Black and Green E2 5b 20m
FA A. McFarlane, P. Mallon 27/08/88
This route takes the steep wall left of Frigate. Start just right of the arete, climbing on nobbles.
Continue up the wall, finishing just left of the crack.
Frigate E1 5b 20m **
FA A. McFarlane, T. McQueen Nov 88
Excellent climbing up the crack on the right-hand side of the narrow wall. Climb the crack and trend
left from the top to the exit
The next outcrop right of Forked Lightening is split by a wide crack (about Diff). The next to routes lie
to the right of this crack.
Trinidad Vee S 12m *
FA A. Tees, A. Ward 22/05/85
Start 2m right of the wide crack. Move up on small holds to gain a widening crack at two-thirds
height. Finish skywards. 
48
www.uniqueascent.ie
San Vincente VS 4c 8m
FA A. Tees, K. Deery 1991
Right of Trinidad Vee. Follows thin crack from bottom to top. Features a bad exit.
Toad-in-the-Hole D 15m
FA P. Grant 1979
Scramble up jammed blocks in the corner right of Forked Lightning.
Forked Lightning VS 4c 20m ***
FA J. Rotheram, J. Logan 1979
Rightward trending crack in the wall almost opposite the Galleon. Crux is low.
Atlantic Ocean Wall E4 6a 20m **
FA N. Grimes, A. Millar 05/01/92
Exhilarating wall climbing up the wall left of Forked Lightning. Sustained and technical going on
pockets and edges, and quite worrying. Start on the ledge below Forked Lightning. Make a move up
and left to footholds and finger edges. From here, the route goes more or less straight up the wall,
passing a small overhang on the right and finishing up a short crack. Protection consists of many
wires crammed horizontally into holes and pods, a good F0.5 in a deep slot at half height, and some
disposable R.P.s above this. Hardest at the start and above the friend. The start was top-roped before
the first ascent.
El Capitano VS 4c 27m **
FA B. McDermott, J. Rotherham 11/05/80
This takes a route up the Eastern boundry wall of the Dungloon climbing area.Start on the far side of
the bay from the Galleas, to the L of and below Lucy and Maeve. There is an obvious corner broken
at mid-height by a ledge. Start low down and climb L of the corner strenuously until the crack is
reached. Steep hand jamming to the ledge and some delicate rock to the overhang. 
49
www.uniqueascent.ie
Lucy HS 8m *
FA P. Grant 1979
Right of "El Cap" and higher up is a small wall. Takes the left corner. Frequently underestimated!
Maeve HS 8m
FA P. Grant 1979
High up in the bay east of the Prow is a small crag. This route climbs the right-hand corner. Harder
than it looks.
Liam Neeson Chasing a Load of Hens Around Inside a Barrel E1 5a 15m.
Start just left of Cup of Sugar, under the roof. Climb to roof and swing left to climb leftward trending
crack on thoughtful gear to break. Make tricky moves up and right to reach flakes. Follow these to
finish up and left.
R. Kernan, C. Gilmour 26/5/17
Cup of Sugar VS 4b 10m
FA D. Somers, B. Patton Feb 81
To the East of the Galleon there is a small island at the sea edge (called the Galleas) characterised
by a clean corner on the left. This route takes the overhanging groove just right of the clean corner on
the Galleas.
Fools Mariniere HS 4b 13m
FA P. Cooper, N. Machon May 1999
Out in the bay on the left hand side of the Galleas is a left to right trending crackline, follow this rising
traverse; exit up last vertical crack.
To the left of Red Duster, on the sea facing wall of the prow, there are two vertical crack lines, on the
right 'Finquin' and on the left 'Protestant Backlash'.
Protestant Backlash HS 4b 10m
FA D. Stelfox Aug 80
Climb the left-hand vertical crackline on the prow, opposite the Galleas, and about 3m left of Finquin.
Finquin HS 4b 10m
FA R. Finlay, K. Quinn Oct 80
This route takes the right-hand crackline, which contains a series of small ledges.
Reach for It E2 5b 20m *
FA A. McFarlane, P. Turley 29/08/88
A sporting route taking the arete left of Red Duster. Boulder up the wall to the first step in the arete.
Continue up the arete with trepidation. Poorly protected, but 'big friends would help'.
Red Duster E1 5a 20m ***
FA M. Manson, D. Stelfox Aug 80
Climb wall to reach crack. Layback up crack to reach horizontal break. Climb over the break and then
straight up to the top. Beware loose rock near the top.
Red Duster - Alternative Start 20m 5b
Climbs the crack just right of the original start. Start on the ledge, and layback up to join the last third
of the original route. Harder, but not as good as the original. Incidentally, this superb route has now
become harder since losing some holds off the top.
The Galleon
The first three routes start the exploration of the west wall of the Galleon
50
www.uniqueascent.ie
Spread Your Wings E1 5b 33m *
FA S. McCrory, E. Cooper 04/04/81
This route is situated on the seaward side of the Galleon. Access is by abseil down Golden
Salamander and leftwards traverse to obvious corner topped by a roof. Climb corner with increasing
difficulty.
This route is the wide crack right of Spread Your Wings.
Altared Ego E1 5b 30m *
FA A. McFarlane, P. Mallon 27/08/88
Abseil down Spread Your Wings and gallop up the wider crack 3m right. The crux is at the bottom. A
good line.
Freedom Blues HVS 5a 30m *
FA D. Stelfox, A. McFarlane 27/08/88
Start at the large left-facing corner left of Gerrymandering. Follow it to the final overhang, which gives
exciting bridging.
Gerrymandering E1 5b 30m *
FA D. Stelfox, W. Brown-Kerr, B. Calhoun 27/08/89
This route climbs the west side of the Galleon, left of Golden Salamander, up the steep wall at the
right-hand end of the west face. Abseil descent.Slip easily up shelves to below a prominent overhang
with a curious eroded column of rock. Bridge up this (crux) to gain cracks above. Move up the wall to
below the final overhang, step left around this, across a ramp and into a final short crack and an
awkward mantel shelf to reach the top.
Golden Salamander VS 4b 40m
FA J. Rotherham, B. McDermott. 11/05/80
This takes the obvious right angled corner on "The Galleon" (the big sea stack usually accessible 
51
www.uniqueascent.ie
from the shore). Access by abseil. Climb up left of the corner, and traverse right to reach the bottom
of the corner. Lower section of this route can be lacquered in thick green slime, and upper section
infested with Fulmar chicks suffering from chronic salmonella. An experience!
Orange Audience VS 4b 40m
FA J. Rotherham, B. McDermott Aug 1980
Takes the 2nd large corner on the landward side of the Galleon , just R of Golden Salamander.
Conciliatory Gesture VS 4b 40m
FA D. Stelfox, J. Rotherham. Nov 1980
Takes the thin curving crack up face starting 3m R of Orange Audience. Can be split into 2 pitches.
Fragile Virgin VD 30m
FA J. Rotheram, J. Logan 1979
Takes the obvious long deep corner left of Spanish Rib.
Spanish Rib VD 30m
FA J. Rotherham, J. Logan 1979
Looking from Forked Lightning, this route follows the R skyline of the Galleon.
Spanish Steps S 4a 45m
FA A. Tees. B. Magowan, 30/03/08
About 20m West of Austins Window is a wide dirty crack at the bottom of the buttress. Climb the thin
crack just left of this, and continue up the offwidth above (thin parallel crack on it's right) to a large
ledge. Move up right into a suspended corner (crux) and up right again to a ledge. Another short step
leads to a belay ledge. Pitch 2. ascend to a leftward leaning chimney, step out left, and continue up
airily on the arete (good wires). Traverse left and finish up Drakes Final Flakes.
Drake's Flakes VS 4b 45m
FA A. Tees, P. Cooper 30/03/08
About 20m beyond (West) of Austins Window, is a high buttress of rock. This route starts just right of
a wide crack, and climbs unprotected to the base of a left facing corner. Alternatively, a fine crack
further right and a leftward traverse will lead to the same place! Layback up the corner most of the
way to the top, and step out right to a small stance, and climb up onto the arete. Continue up airily to
a ledge below a bulging wall, belay. Pitch 2 Climb the wall left of the obvious crack (crux) and
continue up more easily to finish up the finely situated "Drakes Flakes", at the top.
Beef Nut Walls
About75 to 100m around the coast from Austin’s Window is a short steep black wall perpendicular to
the coast. The following three routes are on this wall.
Greenice HS 12m
FA P. Dunlop, A. Millar 26/06/87
100m West of Austins Window is a short steep West Facing wall, perpendicular to the coast. This
climbs a crack on the right side of the wall, with a overhang at half height. Layback up to the
overhang, move left, and go up the crack to the top.
Missionary Woman HVS 5b 12m
FA A. Millar, P. Dunlop 26/06/87
3m left of Greenice. Move into, and over, the niche, and finish via the corner. 
52
www.uniqueascent.ie
Missionary Man HVS 5b 12m
FA P. Dunlop, R. Dunlop 24/06/87
The thin line up the wall, 2m left of Missionary Woman.
The Golden Hind/ Admirable Craic HS 4b 20m **
FA A. Tees, C. McLaughlin, Aug 2010
This climbs the NW side of the "Golden Hind" (next stack to Crows Nest) by an obvious crack, and
the less steep roof by a slight rightward traverse. Access is by boat, or swim from just below the
"Black Wall".
Port A Doris
Directions: Park at the lighthouse/shore carpark at Shroove, and walk northwards up the road to a
small gate on the right (where the road bends back to the left). Walk down the field and pick up a
coastal path, which brings you into the cove via a small rock doorway after 10 minutes approx. The
main crag, comprising Circular Wall and Toby Jug Wall is straight ahead.
Map ref: C686437
Cup Final Alternative VD 25m
FA R. Smith, A. Tees 12/05/79
Towards the left-hand side of Circular Wall locate the blackened area with flakes trending up
leftwards. Follow them up to cracks which are climbed and continue right on rock to the top.
Nelson Drive Special VS 4b 25m
FA R. Moore, C. McLaughlin 06/07/99
This takes a direct line between “Cup Final Alternative” and “Dischord”.
53
www.uniqueascent.ie
Dischord HS 4b 25m
FA D. Stelfox, P. Turley 04/12/83
Takes a more or less direct line up the centre of Circular Wall, starting at the initial bulge immediately
to the left of Storm Bringer.
Storm Bringer HS 4b 25m
FA M. Manson, A. Tees 20/05/79
Start just left of the pillar situated about half-way across Circular Wall. Climb above the top of the pillar
(without using it). Traverse slightly right and continue up on small holds to a crack which leads
leftwards to the top. A fine route on small holds.
Micro Wedge S 4a 20m
FA S. McCrory P. Grant 02/06/79
Climb pillar. Continue right across crack to overhang on Crack-a-Toa. Surmount overhang rightwards
up right-angled diedre to ramp and scramble left to top.
Crack-a-Toa S 4a 25m
FA A. Tees, R. Smith 12/05/79
This follows the hook-shaped layback crack about 6m right of Cup Final Alternative, to the overhang
which is passed on the left. Follow cracks to the top. Pleasant route.
Cream Cracker D 15m
FA R. Smith, A. Tees 12/05/79
This takes the cracks just right of Crack-a-Toa to the ramp. (It can be continued on bad rock behind
the ramp).
Kelp S 4a 10m
FA A. Tees, R. Smith 12/05/79
Climb the prominent corner to the left of Toby Jug Wall.
Toby Jug Wall D 20m
FA A. Tees, R. Smith, S. Hamilton May 79
Prominent multicracked wall, containing 4 similar routes from the left Purple Patch, Chockstone
Trundle Juggernaut and Doughin Doris. Awkward descent.
Strawberry Blonde S 4a 15m
FA S. McCrory, B. McDermott 10/06/79
Climb is on the shore side of the sea stack over the bridge, suitable at low tide only, taking the
crackline left of the sentry box. Climb to the ledge and move right and make an airy traverse on
sloping holds back left, finishing through "V." 
54
www.uniqueascent.ie
Paulines Crack HS 4b 10m
FA B. McDermott, S. McCrory 09/06/79
The crack and ledge immediately left of entrance to cove. Layback crack and move onto ledge (au
cheval). Stand up and traverse right. Climb wall above to top.
Thrills HVS 5b 10m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 28/08/89
Start 5m left of Sarcasm under the left edge of the overhang. Go up a steep, undercut fault and break
out left to a ledge. Bridge up and over the capping stone of the little tunnel.
Scarcasm S 4a 15m
FA M. Manson, A. Tees 20/05/79
About 5m left of Novice Outing is another shorter, steeper corner. Climb to ledge and continue on
loosish rock to top.
Straw VS 4b 10m
FA I. Rea, M. Rea 28/08/89
The fault on the left of Novice Outing has been well cleaned to give this route and Chop Chop. Start
2m right of Sarcasm. Swing up to a ledge, then skip right and climb the steep wall and crack on the
left edge of the slab.
Novice Outing D 17m
FA P. Grant 20/05/79
On the side of the cove above the entrance arch is a prominent corner with a thin band of quartz
running up to the top.
The Crawler S 4a 15m
FA B. McDermott, S. McCrory 10/06/79
Follows crackline on slab right of Novice Outing. Start with difficulty beside large block/boulder. 
55
www.uniqueascent.ie
Follow the crackline for 10m to head wall. Move up onto ledge on right (difficult). Traverse right to
quartz line in groove. Move out over wall (crux). Excellent protection.
Chop Chop S 10m
FA M Rea, I Rea (28/05/89
On the right as you come through the arch is a steep little pillar with an easy corner on the right.
Windy Gap S 4a 20m
FA A. McFarlane, P. Turley,R. O'Hare 23/10/88
Continuing beyond Port-a-doris cove, is a bay with a split sea stack accessible across the rocks. The
dividing fissure is gained from the right by a short traverse above the sea. Continue through the
centre of the stack to the far end where'Windy Gap' is found. Gain the fissure and chimney to the top.
A classic route.
Ladas Drive VS 4c 20m
FA A. McFarlane, R. O'Hare 29/10/88
Climb the steep left wall of the fissure entrance. Climb the wall as far as the jammed block in the
chimney. Follow the obvious line of weakness to the top.
Colmcille Climbers Donegal Ireland