1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Lough Belshade
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Lough Belshade
Directions: The crags surrounding Lough Belshade in the centre of the Blue Stack Mountains provide
excellent climbing in beautiful surroundings. The routes are, almost without exception, on sound
granite and well spread across the grades although the long routes on the main face of Belshade
Buttress are all HVS and above. There is still plenty of scope for development. Friends are almost
essential for protection on most routes. After passing through Barnesmore Gap on the
Ballybofey/Donegal Town Road, look for signs on the right for Lough Eske. Drive around the lake in
an anti-clockwise direction until, at the top of a steep hill, a wooden walker points the way down a
narrow road to the right (Edergole) The narrow road leads to a small farmyard where cars can be
parked. From here a way marked path leads up the valley passing (out of sight) the Doonan Waterfall
which is well worth the short detour (50m) to the right to see. The river, and the marker posts are
followed until the first major river junction, when a stream descends from Lough Belshade to the left.
Follow this stream to arrive at the lake shore. Follow the lake shore to the right to arrive at a small
beach at the northern end of the lake, directly below the crags. About 1.5 hours from the road. At the
beach there is an excellent campsite and not far away, a good dry bivi stone. From the campsite the
crags are, from left to right: Belshade Buttress - by far the largest and containing very fine routes up to
90m in length. Two Tier Buttress on the right flank, consists of two short walls each characterised by a
diagonal crack line running up its centre from left to right. Red Wall - below and slightly left of TwoTier
Buttress. This crag is a smooth rightwards facing slab giving fine climbing with no protection.
Beyond this is a steep grass and rock outcrops through which descent can be made from the top of
the main crag. To the right again is a stream and then a group of three crags one above the other.
These are, from the bottom to the top, Blaeberry Crag, The High Crag and last of all The Very High
Crag. All provide good one pitch routes on clean rock.
Map ref: G975901
Belshade Buttress
More Snakes than Ladders VS 4c 84m *
Deep crack and corner system left of Byzantium at the left side of the South Buttress, left of the main
face. The start of this route as well as Byzantium, Classical Revival and Mystery Tour are all most
pleasantly reached by climbing up the long narrow slab tongue below the left hand corner of the main
face (V.Diff). Directly above the top of this, is a clean slab flanked by two grassy bays. Start at the
arete on the left of this slab.
1: 4b 36m. Up arete, easily at first, but awkwardly at a bulge at 15m. Above this move right to gain a
good deep crack system which is followed to a belay at the foot of a deep chimney system on the
right.
2: 4c 36m Easily up chimney for 10m to a grass ledge and rowan tree. Bridge up the steep corner
above (crux) and then follow crack and slab above to large ledge and belay.
3: 4b 12m Up the cracks on the right above to the top. Good spike belay 5m back.
W. Brown-Kerr, D. Kilpatrick, D. Stelfox 25/03/84
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Byzantium VS 4c 122m **
This route takes a line up the buttress of rock bounding the left side of the main face. The route starts
at the top of the slab tongue described above. The lower section gives some very good climbing and
has become steadily cleaner (and harder) over the years, but the upper part is rather rambling.
1: 4c 17m Climb the clean corner groove, moving left onto a vegetated ledge at 14m, then up right to
belay.
2: 4c 27m Climb the corner groove above, exiting left at the top. Move diagonally right and up past
vegetation to large block on wall on the left.
3: 4c 20m Move left across the block and up the groove above (crux). Follow a good crack left at the
top of the corner groove to a ledge
 4: 4c 28m Climb groove above to the second of two ledges.
 5: 4b 30m Move right across the slab above to a crack overhanging at the bottom. Climb this and the
groove above. Follow a rib on the right to the top.
F. Winder, P. Hill 02/08/54
Classical Revival HVS 5a 82m ***
This route takes the obvious curving ramp leading up to a large overhang at the left hand side of the
face, providing two excellent pitches in a very impressive situation. Start: as for Byzantium.
1: 4c 17m As for Byzantium.
2: 5a 38m From belay move up to the base of a heather filled corner on the right. Step right onto the
arete and airily swing round right onto the wall to gain a good crack. Follow this up to the corner from
where diagonal cracks and a narrow ramp lead with increasing difficulty across the smooth open slab.
About 5m below the large overhang belay on a small ledge below a good crack.
3: 4c 28m Climb the crack above swinging left past the overhang on excellent holds. Continue up the
corner crack above. Finish by the arete on the left or the awkward chimney.
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
D. Stelfox, U. MacPherson, I. Rea 04/04/81
Mystery Tour E1 5b 125m **
Start as for Byzantium. This is a rising traverse of the crag from left to right.
1: 4b 30m From the rib of rock to the right of the bottom of the first pitch of Byzantium, move
delicately down and right across a steep wall to a corner at 3m. Climb this easily to a grassy slab
leading to a grass ledge at the foot of a steep groove.
2: 4c 30m or 8m (4c) and 22m (4a). Up the groove on finger jams and friction and step right onto the
main slab. From here delightful and easy climbing leads across the slab on the obvious line of ledges
to a grassy pulpit. It is possible to take an intermediate belay at the start of the slab thus allowing both
leader and second to appreciate the airy situations.
3: 4c 10m From the pulpit descend for 2m, then move horizontally right to gain the crack at the end of
Pitch 1 of Lest We Forget. Follow these to corner belay.
4: 5b 25m Move right along the ledge and follow Pitch 2 of Midsummer Nightmare up the parallel
rounded grooves to immediately below the huge block. Move right around the base of this and follow
the obvious line to join the belay at the top of Pitch 2 of Land of Hearts Desire.
5: 5a 25m Follow Pitch 3 of Land of Hearts Desire.
6: 4c 5m Follow Pitch 4 of Land of Hearts Desire.
D. Stelfox, W. Brown-Kerr 10/07/83
Act of Destruction E3 6a 75m ***
Two excellent pitches, for which superlatives don't suffice, up the centre of the crag, originally
featuring an `entertaining traverse on pegs' but now going free. Start at the foot of Lest We Forget.
1: 5b 40m Move left to a thin groove, and then up for 3m to gain a traverse line leading left. Follow
this up and left, trending towards a green stained corner. Climb the clean right wall of the green
corner stepping into it briefly before gaining good jugs and surmount the block. Step left onto a grass
ledge and left again onto good holds on the wall above which leads up onto the central slabs. Move
up and left to the traverse line of Mystery Tour and follow this easily right for 5m to a huge grass ledge
and belay.
2: 6a 35m Climb the twin cracks leading directly up behind the belay ledge. These run out after 10m
so swing across right past two in situ pegs (crux) to reach the next crack system. Follow this up to a
bulge and swing left into a steep corner groove. Climb with difficulty up this corner (small friends) and
exit right with an awkward move to a sloping ramp. Climb up and right to join the last 5m of the
alternative finish to Lest We Forget (or pitch 2 of Taken at the Flood: see below).
D. Stelfox, D. McNiff 02.09.89 (2 PA) FFA. D. 0'Sullivan, R. Fenlon May 91
Taken at the Flood E1 5b 80m **
Another top quality line which now makes the alternative finish to Lest we Forget part of an
independent route. Start 5m left of the start of Lest we Forget.
1: 5b 40m Follow the line of stepped blocks up and slightly right easily for 12m to the base of a steep
wall. Clamber directly up the wall to reach a clean ledge 5m below a grass ledge. Step right and rise
smoothly up a short crack to reach the grass ledge. Step right again and join Lest we Forget for the
final crack to the belay.
2: 5b 40m Start up Lest we Forget for 5m, and then step left and traverse left across a slab to a line
of cracks leading upwards. Follow these dutifully up, and then step left to a ledge below an overhang.
Up, up, up through this and then follow a rising fissure right to the foot of the final crack, and so to the
top.
D. Stelfox, D. Somers 03/05/88
Lest We Forget HVS 5a 75m **
A very enjoyable route taking more or less a direct line up the centre of the crag. Start to the right of
the slab tongue below Byzantium, a long sloping heather ledge runs right' across the bottom of the 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Main Face. Scramble up this to its upper right hand end at a prominent corner. About 8m left of this
corner a ramp leads leftwards. Start at the foot of this.
1: 4c 39m Follow the ramp and small ledges at the foot of the obvious crack system, which continues
more or less directly to the top of the crag. Gain the crack and follow this with increasing difficulty to
gain a ledge in a small corner below a large flake.
2: 4c 18m Move up for 3m and step left onto a slab. Follow the crack above to the small perched
ledge in the niche under the roof.
3: 5a 18m Bridge around the roof and gain twin cracks which split the slab. Bridge up these (crux) to
gain a small niche. Continue up the crack to the top. Friends essential for protection.
2: 6a 35m Climb the twin cracks leading directly up behind the belay ledge. These run out after 10m
so swing across right past two in situ pegs (crux) to reach the next crack system. Follow this up to a
bulge and swing left into a steep corner groove. Climb with difficulty up this corner (small friends) and
exit right with an awkward move to a sloping ramp. Climb up and right to join the last 5m of the
alternative finish to Lest We Forget (or pitch 2 of Taken at the Flood: see below). An exquisite route.
D. Stelfox, I. Rea 1982
Midgesummer Nightmare E1 5b 80m ***
This route takes a direct line up the crag between Lest we Forget and Land of Hearts Desire. Start:
As for Lest we Forget.
1: 5b 35m Start by climbing approx 7m up Lest we Forget and traversing right to the foot of a green
corner. There is an obvious direct start below this point but seems to remain constantly wet and has
not yet been climbed. Climb the clean cracks and grooves immediately to the left of the corner, with
increasing difficulty to reach the right hand side of the belay ledge of Pitch 1 of Lest we Forget.
2: 5b 25m Climb the rounded grooves at the right hand side of the ledge, utilising holds on the right of
the blunt rib. Move right as the angle eases to a huge detached block. Move up the left-hand side of
this and swing out left onto the slab. Up this to a constricted belay in a narrow corner groove.
3: 4c 15m From here follow the obvious cracks above to the edge. Move right and then up a crack in
the slab above.
D. Stelfox, W. Brown-Kerr 09/07/83
Land of Hearts Desire HVS 5a 83m ***
This route gives sustained good quality climbing and takes the prominent corner system up the right
hand side of the Main Face. Start: As for Lest we Forget. Left of the corner at the top of the heather
ramp.
1: 5a 18m Climb a short steep wall just right of a small subsidiary corner at the top of the heather
ledge. After 5m follow the obvious traverse right to gain huge block at the foot of the main corner
system.
2: 5a 35m Climb corner directly to reach a perfect belay ledge just left of the twin cracks in the next
corner above.
3: 5a 26m Make a few moves up a small corner, then swing right into the twin cracks (crux). Up these
to base of final steep corner. Up this to belay on grassy ledge to left.
4: 4c 4m Up the short layback above, then up grass and easy rock to belay, far back.
I. Rea, D. Stelfox Oct 81
Two Tier Buttress
Directions: To the right of the main face and almost directly above the Red Wall are two walls of clean
rock each with a prominent central, rightward sloping crack. The two tiers are separated by a large
grassy ledge. Access is from the easy grass and rocky slope to the right of the crag. The first three
routes below are on the lower buttress, and the fourth on the upper.
Map ref: G975901
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Sweet Bird VS 4b 20m
Start at the extreme left hand side of the buttress. Move up and hand traverse right for about 5m to a
flake (runner). Continue hand traversing until a line of holds leads up and left to a bulge (No 1 Friend
is only protection). Move right to a good foothold and then delicately left until possible to reach an
excellent jug and swing beautifully up.
I. Rea, D. Stelfox 08/05/82
Quality Street VS 4c 20m
Route takes the central line. Moving in from the right, climb the obvious system of ledges to gain the
prominent crack and climb this to the top. A direct start (5c) of the prominent crack of Quality Street
has been climbed by J McDonald (4/85).
D. Stelfox, I. Rea 08/05/82
Sidelines HS 4b 20m
Start right of Quality Street at two thin cracks. Climb the lower of the two cracks and at half height
step left to gain the upper crack. Delicate moves lead to a good ledge on the left. Finish over a bulge,
trending left to the top.
I. Rea, D. Stelfox 08/05/82
Tennessee Stud VS 4c 20m
Start: Takes the central crack on the upper buttress. The crack is followed directly. The crux is gaining
a small niche at two-thirds height.
I. Rea, D. Stelfox 08/05/82
Fit for a Lord VS 4b 68m *
Above and to the left of Red Wall is a prominent overhang, shadowing a steep clean groove. Start
below and to the left of the groove at a slab tongue coming down from the left. The first pitch is 
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
avoidable.
1: 3c 18m Up and right edge of the slab, moving right at 15m to gain a small ledge and poor belay at
the foot of the groove.
2: 4b 50m Up the groove, forking left below the overhang. Move left and down slightly to gain a good
horizontal crack leading left across the wall. Hand traverse left across this to gain the arete. Up this
(crux) to wall above which is climbed more easily to the top.
W. Brown Kerr, D. Kirkpatrick, D. Stewart 25/08/84
The Red Wall VS 4c 14m
Below and to the right of the above route is a prominent clean and featureless slab of reddish granite
with a short square cut corner at its right hand end. Four routes have been recorded on the wall . All
are in the VS 4a-4c grades. There is no protection available and route descriptions are unnecessary.
In addition there is Wassock Corner at HS 4b, the corner at the right end of the wall, climbed by A
Currans, A McQuoid 4/8/81.
I. Rea, A. Currans, A. McQuoid.
Blaeberry Buttress
Directions: See description Belshade Buttress
Map ref: G983900
Punkah Wallah S 3c 21m
Start half way up left hand side of the crag, 24m up from Tuning Fork Flake. Climb the crack to
surmount small triangular block at 5m. Climb up onto grass ledge. Move left, surmount detached
block. Continue up and follow a crack to right of tongue of vegetation to the top.
P. Turley, A. Martin 04/04/81
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
Tuning Fork Flake HS 4a 33m *
This route takes a line up the corner edge of the crag finishing up an obvious corner capped by a
detached block.
1: 4a 18m From about 1 m left of the corner climb up left to the foot of an overhanging corner with a
triangular back wall. Up this strenuously but on good holds to grassy slab. Move left easily up slab to
corner belay.
2: 4a 15m Climb the wall above, pulling out past the vibrating flake to reach easy ground above.
M. McMurray, W. Gibson Aug 52
Waterloo S 3c 30m **
This route takes the easiest line of resistance up the main face, in a rising traverse from left to right,
starting 1m right of Tuning Fork Flake and finishing up Gas Guzzler, very exposed but well protected.
Follow the obvious rib of broken rock to reach at about 20m, a black corner. Step down and right to a
small ledge, then bridge round the corner rib to a crystalline rock bay This is the top of Gas Guzzler.
Take the wall above, or more easily take the chimney on the right of the wall, then move back left to
the top. Best belay about 2m below the top.
D. Walsh, D. Richardson 16/06/74
Fear Gorta VS 4c 30m
This route takes an almost parallel but lower line to Waterloo, joining it at the step round into Gas
Guzzler. Start: At a sloping shelf about 2m right of Waterloo on the main face. An awkward start leads
up and right to the foot of a steep black corner, climb the right wall of this at its right end (crux) and
move left into steep but juggy wall corner joining Flyover at this point). Up this wall to join Waterloo at
the step round the black corner into Gas Guzzler and finish.
B. McDermott, S. McCrory, E. Breslin 21/04/81
Corner Boy HVS 5a 25m
Start halfway between Fear Gorta 1 and Flyover at a groove line. Gain the groove with difficulty, and
then move easily upwards to join Fear Gorta at a steep corner. Pull up the steep right wall of this and
up a juggy wall above to reach Waterloo at a ramp. Carry on straight up to the base of a corner, as
the wall steepens make a series of difficult moves to gain the upper ramp. Follow this to the top.
D. Stelfox, S. Wheeler, P. Nolan 04/05/86
Flyover HVS 5a 25m **
This route takes a direct line up the left-hand side of the main face, starting about 4m right of Fear
Gorta, crossing it and Waterloo at mid-height and continuing straight up the steep wall above.
Sustained in the upper section but well protected. Start easily up a series of rock steps to the foot of a
steep cracked wall, with large sloping shelf on the right. Up the wall with increasing difficulty until an
awkward high step leads to a sloping ramp. Move round the corner left to join the steep juggy corner
of Fear Gorta, and continue up the ramp of Waterloo. Continue straight up the wall above, bridging
left into a deep groove at about mid-height and continuing with increasing difficulty to a good flake
about 3m from the top. Step left and make one more awkward move up to good jugs and finish.
D. Stelfox, P. Turley J. Caves 08/04/85
Jibber HVS 5a 25m
Start 1.5m right of Flyover. Climb into the base of the obvious corner, and from here join Flyover.
Follow this to the broken ledge at half height. Move 1.5m right and climb the steep wall bridging right
passing a small loose flake (crux). Continue on up the corner to finish on good jugs.
M. McMahon June 91
Gas Guzzler HVS 5b 36m ***
At the bottom of the thin vertical crackline up the middle of the main wall to the right of Tuning Fork
Crack. Bridge the two parallel cracks to the small overhang at 4m. Swing round left into the crackline.
Follow this to a short bulge (crux) and then on more easily to the foot of a slightly impending wall. 
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Move left across this to a rocky bay. Back right up a short corner, onto easy ground and the top.
Belays are either at a small stance 2m below the top or a long way back.
D. Stelfox, W. Brown-Kerr, D. Kilpatrick 25/08/84
Confrontation VS 4c 36m
Start as for Folly Wolly Doodle.
1: 4b Up the right edge of the buttress as for Folly Wolly Doodle until ledge where it steps right to
grass. Continue delicately up edge of slab to grass ledge and corner on left.
2: 4c An awkward move up and then left leads to good ledge. Continue up cracks in the wall above to
the top. Belay is a long way back
P. Mallon, D. Stelfox, S. Wheeler 14/07/85
Folly Wolly Doodle VS 4c 35m
Route takes the rib on the left of the large grassy recess, steps to the right of the tree belay, and
continues up the dirty corner above.
1: 3c 15m Climb easily up clean rock on the rib. One awkward move to gain a large block and then
step right into the grass and tree belay.
2: 4c 15m Climb the deep corner on the left above, bridge up the two nearly parallel grooves. Exit left
on steep heather. The original description was very vague and the route was also done under the
name of Abba in 1974.
C. Boyd, P. Gribbon, D. Naylor H. Elliott 12/08/58
Confusion VS 5a 15m *
Right of Folly Wolly Doodle is a fine buttress extending about half-way up the crag, split by a thin
crack with an overhang at mid-height. A layback start leads to good finger jamming up to the
overhang. Step left and rest before the crux moves up the crack above. Up the crest of the buttress to
belay. Either traverse left to Pitch 2 of Folly Wolly Doodle or, climb right, up grassy and broken ground
to the top.
A. Currans, A. McQuoid 04/04/81
Conclusion E1 5c 21m *
A fine technical corner which can be linked with Confusion to give a good sustained afternoon out.
Alternatively, approach by the first pitch of Folly Wolly Doodle. Start at the grass ledge half-way up the
right side of the crag. Climb up the initial corner to gain a small ledge below the main corner. Make
some difficult bridging moves up the corner to reach good flakes on the left, leading to an easier
finish.
D. Stelfox, D. McNiff, P. Mallon 03/09/89
Ruairi E1 5b 35m
On the right-hand side of Blaeberry Crag is a steep right facing wall split by a crack.
1: 5b 10m Climb the crack with poor protection at the crux at 5m to a shoulder.
2: 4c 15m Move up grass ledges on the right to the foot of double cracks in the upper tier. Bridge up
these, over a bulge, to a ramp on the right. Move back left into the crack, and so to the top. Could be
done in one pitch for all the rope-drag lovers amongst you.
D. Stelfox, P. Mallon, D. McNiff 03/09/89
High Crags
Directions: The High Crag and the Very High Crag are directly above Blaeberry Buttress, and form
upper tiers of this outcrop.
Map ref: G983900
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Dead Man's Ladder VD 30m *
At the corner of the crag where the south wall turns left up the hill. Climb the steep wall on excellent
holds for 15m. Step round to the right and gain a shallow groove up a steep slab. Follow this to the
top.
C. Boyd, P. Gribbon, D. Naylor, H. Elliot Aug 58
Hombre HS 4a 65m *
Above the large block 3m right of Dead Man's Ladder.
1: 4a 18m Climb corner crack by excellent layback to ledge on the left. Belay at bottom of arete
above.
2: 3b 24m Move right into corner. Climb crack, moving right onto face near top. Exit on large platform.
Scramble over rock and grass to rightward side of wall.
3: 3c 13m Above large block, mantleshelf onto ledge. Move right and up on small holds to top. (The
first pitch provides good climbing but the remainder is rather contrived.
J. Bent, P. Donnelly K. Bent 18/06/75
A Midge Too Far VS 5a 10m *
A short but good quality pitch which starts from the top of the first pitch of Hombre, and giving a
better finish to that route. Follow the crack in the left wall of the upper tier just beside Hombre's first
belay.
D. McNiff, D. Stelfox 02/09/89
Dambusters E2 5c 20m **
A spanking route up the obvious crack between Hombre and Toblerone. Make a bouldering start
rightwards and then swing back left on a good jug to gain the deep layaway crack. Follow this more
easily to gain the steep upper cracks and a small ramp on the left. Shuffle up this to its highest point,
and then with awkward jamming, reach good holds on the left wall (crux). Follow the crack more easily 
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
to the top.
D. Stelfox, P. Mallon 02/09/89
Toblerone S 4a 27m
Start 13m right of Dead Man's Ladder at a deep crack that forks in two after 5m.
1: 18m Follow the deep crack, pulling up to the left at the triangular block at the fork. Follow corner to
vegetation at top. Belay at grassy ledge.
2: 9m Climb up slanting wall to arete to the right of grassy ledge. Take large step back left into wide
bottomed crack and follow this to the top.
P. Turley, A. Martin 04/04/81
Fudge Fingers VS 4c 20m
Start as for Toblerone, but follow the right hand of the forked cracks. This leads across the slabs to
the right arete which is followed to the top. Finish up Toblerone or walk off leftwards.
A D. McNiff, D. Stelfox 02/09/89
Foreign Body HVS 5a 36m *
Start at the right hand side of the south face of the crag is a broad, clean slab running the full height of
the crag and curving off gently at the bottom. The climb starts at the bottom, left edge of this slab.
Climb the first 8m easily to an overlap as the slab steepens. Bridge up twin cracks for 2m, then swing
left on a good flake (crux). Move back right on to the slab and continue up more easily on good
ledges. Move right towards the top and finish on the right edge.
D. Kilpatrick, W. Brown-Kerr, D. Stelfox 25/08/84
Delhi Belly VS 5a 35m
The corner/groove line right of Foreign Body, with the crux near the bottom.
P. Mallon, S. Wheeler July 87
Very High Crag.
Directions: Immediately above and to the left of the high crag.
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
Joint Effort VD 30m
 Start on the Very High Crag, at the edge between the high vertical west facing walls and broken
south face. Follow the arete on small holds for short distance and then bridge up shallow corner to the
top.
P. Turley, A. Martin 05/04/81
Rejuvenation S 3c 13m
Start at the Left-hand wall of the "Very High" crag beside some large fallen blocks about 10m up from
right-hand arete and Joint Effort. Move up on good holds to small ledge. Climb obvious overhanging
chimney (awkward and strenuous). Move right from the top of the chimney across small grassy slab.
Move up to belay in corner.
B. McDermott, S. McCrory 22/04/79
Northwest Passage HS 4b 12m
Starting 30m left of Rejuvenation. Climb a steep wall on good holds to reach an obvious overhanging
corner. Now thrutch up the tantalising off-width crack above.
V. Russell, A. Tees 20/07/86
Red Gully
Directions: Follow the stream right of Blaeberry Buttress from the campsite, for 5-10 minutes, until it
goes into a gorge. Climbing is on the left side.
Map ref: G976903
Double Whymper (& Chips) S 4a 15m
Lower down the gully there is an impressive wall with a pillar/corner on its right hand side. There are 
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
two sets of attractive cracks high on this wall. This route starts below the right set of cracks, goes less
than half way up, "Whymps Out" and traverses left past the other set, to find an easier crack just left
of this.
A. Tees, Michael , V. Schaffer 26/05/07
From a Whymper to a Scream HVS 5b 18m
This route takes the left set of obvious twin cracks. Move up with no problems to small overhang. Pull
up over this using good holds. Climb up crackline and bridge between both lines when it splits (crux).
Good hold at top of left crack. Clamber over top using vegetation at hand.
M. Hassan, P. McConnell 30/05/09
Kieran's Pain HS 4b 12m
At the upper end of the gully, the fine left hand wall changes direction slightly, forming a shallow
arete. This route follows the obvious features up the arete. Good route.
P. McConnell, A. Tees, V. Schafer 26/05/07
P.J's Pleasure HVS 5a 12m
Start as for "Tosser" but step left, and climb the steep unprotected wall on small holds.
P. McConnell, V. Schafer, A. Tees 26/05/07
Tosser S 4a 12m
About 5m right of "Kierans Pain", follow the obvious line of weakness up the wall, first right and then
back left.
A. Tees, P. McConnell, V. Schafer 26/05/07d