1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A Climbers guide to
Malinbeg Sea Cliffs
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Crag Index
Alba Wall 4
Neptunes Wall 5
Salmon Pink Wall 7
Hulk Wall 8
Out of the Blue Wall 9
Narrow Zawn 10
Main West Wall 13
The Island 17
Prawn Zawn 19
The South End 22
Duan Head 24
Rathlin O'Byrne 25
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Malinbeg
Directions: The sea cliffs at Malin Beg are tremendously popular, providing a very attractive
combination of good clean rock, easy access and generally better weather than elsewhere in the
county. Routes are short, mainly in the lower grades and consequently a rather relaxed atmosphere
prevails. The only longish routes (up to 40m) are on Duan Head but suffer from a band of loose rock
running across the top and are thus rather more serious than most. Climbing is usually feasible
throughout the year and midges are rare. Care is needed with tides and in high seas waves can break
right over the crag. The normal approach is from Donegal town, along the N56 to Killybegs and then
the R263 through Carrick (An Charraig) towards Glencolmcille (Glean Cholm Cille). As this is a
Gaeltact area, most of the road signs show the Irish spelling of the towns and villages. Approx 5km
from Carrick turn left towards Malin Beg and Malin More. At the Malin More crossroads turn left to
arrive at the tiny village of Malin Beg. By continuing straight on the road you end at a small car park
with access to the Silver Strand, a justifiably popular beach, but by turning right at the crossroads in
the centre of the village you reach the tiny natural harbour. Continue past the last cottage on a rough
track and park on the grassy cliff top. This area provides an excellent campsite but is often used by
the local fishermen for drying and mending their nets, so care is needed. Continue up the track,
passing the old watch-tower on your left, to arrive at the top of the crag, at the top of Narrow Zawn.
The various sections of the crag are described from the right to the left looking out to sea. Duan Head
is the large headland separating the harbour from the Silver Strand, on the left looking out to sea from
the campsite. It is reached by a short walk along the grassy cliff top from the harbour. As well as the
numerous climbs described there exists almost endless possibilities for sea level traversing at all
grades.
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
NORTH END
The most northerly continuous section of the crag is the steep pocked wall lined with vertical grooves
known as Neptune's Wall. The bottom of the wall is easily reached by scrambling down from the north
side but the area is tidal. The first route described lies on a small island north of Neptune's Wall,
reached by crossing a narrow channel at low tide.
Map ref: G490795
Alba Wall
Directions: 40 meters north of Neptunes wall and facing out onto the Northern tip of the immediate
offshore island. Access by abseil or low tide boulder hop to and from the island.
Map ref: 490795
Heidbanger HVS 4c 15m *
Climb the prominent crack system left of centre to a ledge at 2/3rd height. Climb to top trending
slightly right.
C. McDaid, I. Miller 14/02/09
Numpty VS 4c 15m
A better protected alternative to Heidbanger. Takes the broken crack system immediately right of
Heidbanger to ledge. Finish as per Heidbanger.
C. McDaid, J. Walls, J. Brown 11/4/09
Dunderheid E1 5a 15m *
Climb the left facing corner in centre of crag to 2/3rd height. Follow left wall of right facing corner to
summit.
C. McDaid, I. Miller 14/02/09
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Fliuch Baite S 4a 6m
On the wall of the island facing the mainland are two obvious cracks, the route follows the left-hand
crack, gained by an awkward mantleshelf from a boulder in the channel.
D. Doyle, M. O'Shea, P. Norton 16/07/79
Next climbs are around the corner, to the right, on Neptune's Wall. The wall is easily identified by the
slot/cave in the wall's centre.
Shaky Rigging HS 4b 15m *
Start: At the extreme left-hand side of Neptune's Wall. Climb a 5m crack to the top of a block, then
move onto a steeper section of wall to the right. Climb on small holds to the top.
D. Byrne, P. O'Connor 13/04/79
The Jig HS 4c
A girdle of Neptune's Wall, starting as Shaky Rigging and finishing just left of the right-hand corner.
E. Cooper, T. Cooper, T. Ryan Feb 84
The Bosun's Ladder S 4a 15m ***
Start: 2m right of Shaky Rigging. Follow an obvious deep vertical crack and groove system with good
holds. Crux is at about 10m, and excellent protection is available.
P. Sloane, P. O'Connor, J. Leonard 01/08/77
Hydrophobia VS 4b 15m ***
Start: 2m right of The Bosun's Ladder. Follow a line directly up the centre of the wall on good holds
and protection.
D. Keena, S. Long 09/04/78
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Carrig Una D 15m *
The crackline 1M left of the slot. From the base of the wall move up to a small stance, then over a
slight bulge to easier climbing before the top.
J. Leonard, P. O'Connor, G. Barrett 09/04/78
Rabid Puffin VS 4c 12m *
Climb out of the back of the rock cave by via the right hand corner and crack, once out onto the face
step left to gain a crack and reach top.
P. Cooper, E. Johnson 12/06/05
Splashdown HS 13m
The line 1M right of the the slot/cave's right hand end, with a small overhang at the ledge.
G. McGrath, P. Wynn 08/04/78
Red Duster S 3c 13m
Start at the base of a waterlogged corner right of Splashdown with access via a downward curving
ramp. Climb corner to horizontal ramp and then continue directly up the headwall, trending slightly
right at the top.
J. Butler, G. Barrett, J. Leonard 16/04/79
8M to the right and almost opposite Red Duster there is a smooth black slab capped with overhangs.
Keelhaul HS 14m
Move up slab into overhanging corner. Delicate move to gain an awkward ledge, then step around left
onto the higher slab. Continue up on big pockets to the top, moving slightly right. Protection difficult to
arrange. 
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
P. Coakley, J. Leonard, P. Sloan 16/04/79
Scuppered VS 4c 15m
Start: Short overhanging corner right of Keelhaul. Climb corner and step out left onto Keelhaul slab.
Climb crack up right edge of slab to farthest right overhang which is climbed on the left.
M. Smith, P. Beattie, D. Hughes 20/06/81
Salmon Pink VS 4c 12m
Start: A few metres right of Scuppered and 5m left of Evelyn Marie on a wall facing the sea, is a
curving corner. Start slightly to the left and below this. Gain the base of the corner easily and climb it
until a large handhold on the right wall can be reached. Using this move up and out right onto the wall
which is followed easily to the top.
K. Murphy, M. Ni Chiosain 24/06/80
Jib VS 4b 12m
Start 2m left of Evelyn Marie, below an overhang. Move up and over the overhang on good holds.
Make a spectacular but straight forward step left around the arete and climb the steep wall above.
A. McQuoid, D. Hughes 21/06/81
Evelyn Marie HS 12m *
This climb takes the obvious fault and crack running up a short dark corner about 10m south of
Keelhaul. Climb the awkward wide crack until a move to the left enables the crack above to be
gained. Follow this to easier rock and the top. Good protection.
A. Irving, P. O Connor, J. Leonard 22/07/78
Swell VS 5a 12m
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
The route follows the prominent arete left of Trident with only one awkward move past the overhang.
K. Quinn, D. Stelfox May 83
Trident S 4a 12m *
Climb the very obvious full crag height groove Immediately to the right (south) of Swell. RP's Handy!
D. Keena, C. McGrath, S. Long 08/04/78
Moving south from 'Trident' there are some small slabs and grooves, followed by an easy chimney
forming the next corner. The next three climbs take the pock-marked wall on the south side of the
chimney's corner. Numerous variations are possible.
Anger Management S 4a 10m *
Starting 2m to the left of "David Banner," and directly below a left facing corner high on the face.
Climb direct to the corner of excellent holds and tiny gear, pull through the corner high above last
gear.
I. Miller, C. Gleeson 28/05/12
David Banner S 4a 10m *
David Banner starts at a white quartzy piece of rock left of the pockled wall. Climb directly upwards,
parallel to 'The Hulk', moving out left on tiny holds with strenuous pull up to the top.
P. McFarland, B. Galway 15/09/79
The Hulk VD 10m
From the middle of the pockled wall, follow the good holds to a stance at the half-height; then up a
groove on the left to finish.
J. Leonard, P. O'Connor 08/04/78
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
About 15M south of 'The Hulk' and across a narrow inlet is a smooth twisting black slab.
Big Jessie VD 12m
On the slabby wall opposite the "Torn Sole" corner, climb the vertical cracks up the left edge of the
slab.
C. McDaid, I. Miller 14/02/09
Wee Jessie VD 10m
Climb the right hand edge of the Slab.
I. Miller, C. McDaid 14/02/09
Torn Sole HS 4b 12m
On the black slab below the slightly overhanging corner. Climb the corner (crux) and proceed directly
up the slab above on good holds to the top.
B. Galway, P. McFarland 15/09/79
Moving further south there are a number of short slabs offering pleasant scrambling. The last of these
finishes in an obvious corner, the right side of which has a very steep north facing wall.
Out of the Blue E1 5b 15m *
Start at the corner between the slab and the wall. Climb up the corner to a ledge on the right. Step
right and layback up to pinch grips and small flake. Swing left and up ledges to the top.
E. Cooper April 81
Shanghied HVS 5a 15m
Start: Below the centre of the steep wall between Out of the Blue and Captain Flint. Climb crack for
about 3m straight up centre of the wall on delicate holds and even more delicate protection and up
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
over the bulge (crux) to finish.
P. Clerkin, P. Clerkin 27/08/83
Captain Flint HS 4b 15m
Starting about 2m left of Calvin's Corner. Climb the crack on the left edge of the wall to a small quartz
nose. Turn this on the left and follow crack more easily to the top.
T. Saunders, S. Alston 1979
Roller HVS 5a 15m
An eliminate line climbing the cracks in the left wall of Calvin' Corner.
E. Cooper, N. Mclllroy 1982
Calvin's Corner HS 8m ***
Start: The obvious dark corner right of Nautiroot, normally approached from the easy slabs to the
south. Climb the corner directly to the top. Was VS in 79 & 85 guides.
C. Torrans, S. Billane 24/05/75
A few metres to the right of 'Calvin's Corner' is a large face, this is the start of Narrow Zawn's climbs;
opposite The Main West Wall. Access via scramble.
Harpoon VD 9m
Start: A few metres to the right of Calvin's Corner and a little higher. Climb an awkward corner to a
large ledge. Move left and across to top of corner crack to a second ledge and then by a corner above
to the top.
J. Leonard, P. O'Connor 26/10/78
To the south now are a series of ribbed slabs providing pleasant scrambling and convenient descents
to either the last five routes or all the routes in a Narrow Zawn and Main Wall West areas.
Narrow Zawn
Directions: The routes in this area surround the small sea inlet known as Narrow Zawn. The main
approach track from the harbour leads one directly to the top of the zawn. The pavement at the top of
the buttress to the right (north) of the zawn is a fine viewing platform for these routes and the Main
West Wall. Descent is easily achieved by scrambling down the steep but very broken rocks
immediately to the north of the buttress, to a broad, non-tidal ledge. The zawn itself is easily crossed
except at high tide or in particularly stormy weather.
Map ref: G490795
Albatross VS 4c 20m
Start: The left-hand end of the buttress is characterised by an obvious prow of rock, with a crack
running up its right-hand side. Climb this well protected crack to upper slab and the top.
E. Cooper Feb 81
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
Mr Ben E1 5a 20m
Start below obvious Prow just right of Albatross, Climb easily to ledge at start of Albatross and then
step out right on to the slab and climb upwards using a thin crack for hands and protection. Climb into
obvious groove and then exit to top (crux) on poor holds and small pro, (size 0/0.5 friend useful here)
P. McArthur, R. Young 28/05/93
Moby The Eunach E2 5b 20m
This route climbs the obvious thin crackline up the centre of the steep wall. Start below the cracks and
climb up easily until the wall steepens and the start of the crack proper. Climb crack to top using small
ledges and lay-aways (crux protected by small wires).
D. Woodward, D. Hanna 30/11/86
Zimmerman Blues HVS 5a 30m
This route takes the right-hand side of the fallen wall, starting with a steep ramp leading to an obvious
deep crack at mid-height. Gain the ramp and follow it to a small overhang. Climb this with difficulty
and follow the crack above to the top.
S. Billane, C. Torrans 24/05/75
Hornpipe Slab HVS 5b 25m
The following routes are across the Zawn. The juggy crack to gain the slab has fallen, giving a 5b wall
climb. Start near the back of the zawn opposite the main rockfall area. Climb the wall to gain obvious
rightward trending slab.
Original 'Vdiff' ascent J Leonard, J Flynn 25/05/75 5b start, W.Poots, D Ferguson?
Hornpipe Variant E1 5b 22m
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start As for Hornpipe Slab for 2m. Climb the vertical left wall (unprotected) to the top.
S. Long, P. Wynne 09/04/78
Barnacle Bill VD 20m
This route takes a series of blocks a few metres to the right of Hornpipe Slab to a black corner at the
top. Climb a number of easy blocks to a corner below a black slightly overhanging corner which is
sometimes wet. Gain height and climb up through the corner using good footholds on the left wall.
J. Leonard, K. Byrne 31/03/75
Heave Ho VD 20m
A few metres to the right of Barnacle Bill. Climb some blocks and corners to a large ledge below a
corner crack. Climb the outside of the corner on the right on good holds to the top.
J. Leonard, K. Byrne 31/03/75
Marine Express VD 25m
The route follows a corner which starts on a quartzy `V' at the step of the upper of two obvious
diagonal ramps a few metres to the right of Heave Ho. Follow the ramp to a layback block. From top
of this step left and up steep wall on good holds, then up obvious rightward trending staircase on
good but airy holds to the finish. Lack of protection on upper part of the route.
P. Gargan, D. Walsh 30/03/75
Lord of the Flies HS 4b 25m *
The lower of the two diagonal ramps mentioned above leads, with one awkward mantleshelf to the
foot of a black chimney. The same point is more directly reached by climbing the obvious weakness in
the wall below the ramp, gaining the ramp at 5m, just below the awkward mantleshelf. It is possible to
belay at the foot of the chimney. Just right of the chimney, climb the obvious layback crack which is a 
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
feature of the cliff (crux) and up steep ground to finish.
D. Walsh, P. Gargan, C. Wray 31/03/75 direct start 20/05/78
Dis Donc HVS 25m
This route takes the direct start of Lord of the Flies, to the base of the black chimney which is then
laybacked to the top.
E. O'Riordan, M. O'Shea, K. Coyle 16/06/79
Main West Wall
Directions: The long wall stretching from Narrow Zawn, past The Island, to Prawn Zawn. Descent as
for Narrow Zawn, depending on tide level, for routes as far as La Cois Farraige, or abseil.
Map ref: G490795
Flying Enterprise VS 5a 27m ***
This route, the classic `VS' of the crag follows the two rightward trending ramps on the smooth wall to
the right of Lord of the Flies. Climb a thin groove onto a ledge at 5m. Move left and up a short smooth
wall (crux) to gain the upper ramp. Follow the ramp up and right finishing by moving slightly left on
steep rock.
T. Ryan, J. McKenzie, J. Scott 31/03/75
Fiddler's Green HVS 5a 27m ***
This route takes the wide ramp about 3m right of Flying Enterprise. Gain the ramp at 7m by some ,
strenuous moves and follow it easily right to the base of a short overhanging corner. Climb this (crux)
to gain the sloping ledge on the right. Continue more easily to the top. 
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
D. Walsh, D. Webster 20/05/78
Carrigeen E3 5c 27m **
The route follows the quartz fault running through Fiddler's Green and Flying Enterprise. Start 2m
right of the stepped black ramp of Fiddler's Green. Climb a shallow groove/scoop to gain ledge on
Fiddler's Green. Step left and climb the quartz fault with the aid of this crack to a ledge on Flying
Enterprise. Move left again following the quartz vein to a narrow ledge. From this step right and up
narrow ledges to the top.
E. Cooper, T. Cooper June 84
Clipper E2 5c 27m
Start at the bottom of the stepped ledg8s right of Carrigeen. Climb directly up the wall to a ledge at
the base of the steep groove on Fiddler's Green. Step down and left and follow an obvious line of
weakness to gain the top of the ramp on Flying Enterprise. Step left and mantel-shelf onto a ledge
and continue more easily to the top.
E. Cooper, T. Cooper Sept 90
Sacrifice E4 6a 27m *
Right of Carrigeen is a series of 3-step ledges which leads to a corner. Start on the top ledge. Climb
slightly leftwards past two horizontal breaks (good F0.5 in second one). Move up and right with
difficulty on sloping holds and continue up to a narrow ledge. Climb straight up to the base of a
groove. Move right using side-pulls until it is possible to regain a groove which is followed to the top.
E. Cooper, T. Cooper Sept 90
Curragh E3 5c 18m **
Start as for Cutlass, up the ramp trending right. From the top, left side of this, step left onto the steep
wall and make a series of delicate moves up and left finishing with an awkward mantelshelf. Up easily
to the corner above and on to the top. Poorly protected.
E. Cooper, T. Cooper June 84
Cutlass HS 4b 18m
The deep corner chimney at the end of the initial smooth wall. The top section of the chimney has
fallen, leaving a blocky ramp. Start as for Curragh following the ramp leading in from the left to join the
route at about 1/2 height. Alternatively take the direct start up the black 'V' chimney from the bottom.
D. Walsh, J. Muhall 28/04/74
After the Fall S 18m
The area from 'Captain Birdseye' to `Wreck of the Mary Deare' has been badly affected by rockfall
and how much of the original routes to survive is not clear. However, a new Severe following the line
of 'Crabs Crawl' has been logged and a Diff in the same area. After the Fall Following the line of
'Crabs Crawl on the main west wall where again rockfall has occurred on the upper part of the route.
Start a few metres left of `The Wreck of the Mary Deare' and follow a rising leftward line easily, then
climb directly up the steep ground above.
M. Connolly; G. Evans 22/09/93
The Waltz VD 25m
Start: 15m left of Private Schultz at the left-hand end of a large slab beneath a huge ledge at half
height. A small layback corner leads to an obvious fault line which starts on the ledge.
W. Poots
Private Schultz HVS 5a 28m
Right of Crabs Crawl is a steep wall which ends in the overhang and twin corners of The Wreck of the
Mary Deare. This route follows a line up the middle of this wall, starting about 1 m left of the corner of
The Wreck of the Mary Deare. Climb easily up to a small overlap. Traverse left to a good foothold. 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
Move up a few feet and then step back right and up to a flakey crack and on to the top.
M. Manson, T. Ryan, M. Prendergast 02/06/81
The Wreck of the Mary Deere HVS 5a 27m ***
Start: The obvious two stage corner split by an overhang, just left of the deep chimney of Main Brace.
Climb the corner and traverse left under the overhang to gain the upper corner. Continue up the
corner with increasing difficulty and poor protection.
T. Ryan, J. McKenzie
Main Brace HS 4a 20m
The obvious chimney narrowing at half-height, almost opposite the end of the island. 1) 10m Climb
beside chimney until it is necessary to turn bulge at 7m (crux) on the left. Traverse 2m to a fault line
on the left and ascent until it is possible to move right to top of chimney and belay at a quartz
obtrusion.
J. Mulhall, D. Walsh 28/04/74
Broadside HVS 5a 15m **
The route takes the obvious laybacking fault line about 8m to the right of Main Brace. Gain the
laybacking flake crack and move onto the base of a steep shallow groove. Climb groove on small
holds to ledge below short wall which is climbed to the top.
J. McKenzie, J. Leonard 18/04/76
La Cois Farraige VS 5a 10m **
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
The steep dark corner about 20m right of Broadside. Climb the left-hand wall on small holds until a
bridging stance is possible. Difficult bridging up the final 2m (crux) leads to the top. Surprisingly good
protection.
J. McKenzie, P. McHugh 22/04/76
The next routes start 1/4 of the way along and opposite 'the Island', by the handy belay boulders.
New York City Trader HVS 5a 21m
The next five routes are reached by abseiling into a small rock bay on the wall about half way along
the island. The top is marked by a grassy platform with some huge boulders. The abseil is down a
broad groove with two distinct corners, to arrive at a large and horizontal quartz vein. NewYork City
Trader Start: On the left end (north) of the ledge. Climb the extreme left of the initial slab and gain the
bottom of the groove on its left edge. Follow this to underneath the overhang which is swarmed
strenuously directly or airily turned on the left. Climb head wall to finish.
J. McKenzie, D. Walts 1982
First Mate VS 4c 22m **
Looking from the sea level platform, this route finishes up the left-hand of the two corners. From the
platform climb the short wall corner to beneath the overhang. Move left and then up steep rock on
good holds to a ledge at the bottom of the corner. Climb this with steady nerve to the top.
P.O. Brien, D. Walsh 17/04/76
Bye Centennial HVS 5a 21m *
This climb enters a prominent `V' groove approx Sm right of the top of Second Mate, from below and
left, via a steep black wall. Start as for First Mate etc Straight up easily for 6m. Step up and right to
gain a _traverse line. Delicately footsey right (protection peg in place) for 3m on undercuts.
Strenuously up crux crack above to enter groove and more easily finish. Well protected. "Four Wild
Men Go Roaming" appears to follow the same line.
D. Walsh, S. Barrett, M. McCormack 29/06/85
Pints of Paradise VS 4b 30m
Start as for First Mate but take a traverse line into Dootin the Donkey, whatever that is. Then move
directly up to a small overhang, climb directly up to pock marks.
G. McGrillan, R. Rea Nov 88
Second Mate VS 4c 22m *
Start as for First Mate. At the overhang swing right to gain a broad ramp. Climb ramp to the foot of the
righthand'corner. Climb the corner above with good technical jamming and bridging, the crux being at
about half height.
D. Walsh, P. O'Brien 17/04/76
Man O'War HVS 4c 23m
From the same sea level platform as above, traverse to the base of a large groove system, right of a
"zip fastener" line trending slightly left. Step down and then trend upwards in steps. From ledge step
left into zip fastener line and layback 6m to large ledge. Back into crack and continue to the top. A
serious line, lacking protection.
J. McKenzie, J. Kerr e 24/04/76
Man O'Peace VS 21m
Start: At the right end of the quartz vein, right (south) of Man O'War. Climb easily up to the right of
Man O'War "Zip Fastener" and gain ledge below headwall. Turn the small overhang on the right and
cross Man O'War to gain a small ledge below the obvious "V" groove (crux). Into V groove and up
easily to top
D. Walsh, S. Barrett 17/07/83
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
The next two routes, although on the island facing wall are most easily reached by traversing into the
sound from the large platform at the side of Prawn Zawn - see that section for description of descent.
CaptainsTable.
Captain’s Table VS 4b 32m **
Start: At the end of the platform, at the foot of Below Deck.
1: 4a 16m Traverse just above the high tide mark into the sound. At 7m step down onto the ramp
ascending diagonally left to a good nut belay under the overhang in the corner.
2: 4b 16m Step left onto arete and climb the clean wall (crux) on small holds to the top.
P. O'Brien, D. Walsh 18/04/76
Devilled Kippers VS 4b 32m **
As for Captains Table.
1: 4a 16m As for Captains Table.
2: 4b 16m From belay step down ramp and then climb diagonally right across slab on small holds
through the obvious break in the overhang in the top right-hand corner. Continue up slab to the top.
Small wires useful.
D. Walsh, K. Byrne, P. O'Brien 16/04/76
The Island
Directions: The Island The eleven routes below are all on the small island directly west of the Tower.
The routes are all on the east face of the island and are described from left to right (south to north)
looking at the island from the tower Awkwardness of access precludes the climbs popularity though
there are some good routes. The most practical method is for the climbers to swim across to the
southern end, and for gear to be roped across. It is unnecessary to point out the need for calm
weather conditions. The routes are described in relation to two platforms, one at the south end. nearly
opposite Prawn Zawn, the other about half way along the face
Map ref: G490795
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
Leonard's Lament HS 23m
Start: At the left-hand edge of the south platform opposite Prawn Zawn. Gain a small obvious platform
at 6m by means of a 6m fluted crack. Climb the obvious corner directly above, exiting slightly right.
D. Walsh, D. Keena 30/07/77
Blackjack HVS 23m
Start: 2m right of Leonard's Lament. Climb directly up the broken rock to the foot of a thin crack in the
steep wall at 10m. Step left onto arete and surmount overhang above by means of strenuous
mantleshelf. Ascend arete above, finishing just right of Leonard's Lament.
T. Irving, D. Keena 30/07/77
Trucker VS 23m
Start: 2m right of Blackjack. Climb the broken rock directly to the foot of an obvious fat crack in the
steep wall. Climb crack, surmounting bulge with hand jams and exit directly above top of crack.
T. Irving 30/07/77
Clawback HS 25m
Start: just right of Trucker. Follow the stepped diagonal and only right weakness in the steep wall
above for 17m until it is possible to traverse diagonally left over the steep wall itself, finishing as for
Trucker.
D. Walsh, T. Irving 01/08/77
Crows Nest HS 30m **
Start: Above the high-water mark, on the extreme right edge of the same platform, at the foot of twin
grooves traversing, diagonally right to the foot of some overhangs. Follow these grooves to the foot of
the overhangs where it is possible to traverse right 10m directly underneath the overhangs until this 
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
traverse emerges at the foot of a steep wall after 6m. The wall above forms the first of four prominent
corners rising vertically from the second platform at the middle of the island. Ascent the slightly
overhanging wall in exceptionally airy position on enormous holds for 12m to the top.
D. Keena, D. Walsh 30/07/77
Cannonball Corner HVS 23m **
Start: At the extreme left of the middle platform directly underneath a violently overhanging corner.
The route follows the prominent corner which is the second of the four prominent corners directly
above. Ascend the initial overhang awkwardly and strenuously to an off-balance stance. Climb the
continuously vertical - corner above by the obvious line. A serious line as protection is only
satisfactory.
T. Irvine, D. Walsh 01/08/77
Privateer VS 23m
Start: In the middle of the platform to the right of Cannonball Corner, underneath and to the right of
the third corner above. Ascend the broken rock easily for 4m, where it is possible to step down and
left above an overhang below to a position at the bottom of the third corner. Ascend the foot of the
corner very delicately without protection. Follow the corner strenuously to a point 2m below the top
where it is necessary to step out of the corner right on very small holds to finish directly above.
T. Irvine, D. Walsh 01/08/77
Splash Gordon S 23m
Climb the easy broken rock and ascend the steep rock to the foot of the fourth corner. Ascent the
fourth corner above delicately and airily to exit on top.
D. Walsh, G. Barrett 31/07/77
H.M.S. Tyrolean S 14m
Start: Extreme right of the middle platform. The climb follows the obvious wide crack on the left of the
slab on the right-hand side of the platform. Start at the foot of the crack. Climb the crack on doubtful
rock to the crux at 12m and exit on easy ground.
D. Walsh, G. Barrett 31/07/77
In Uisce Le Long S 14m
Start: At the corner at the north end of the sound, at the foot of obvious clear cut corner. Climb the
corner strenuously, escaping left when the going becomes too tough.
D. Walsh, M. Caulfield, S. Long June 81
Nautical Myles HS 14m
Climb the short wall on the right-hand side and mantleshelf awkwardly onto ledge. Chimney and
bridge up the shallow depression above and stretch to hold over top (crux).
D. Walsh, M. Caulfield, S. Long June 81
Prawn Zawn
Directions: Lying just to the south of the tower. Prawn Zawn is the deep inlet ending in a cave. The
next ten routes lie on the promontory that runs from the island sound along the north side of the zawn.
Descent is by abseil down the non-tidal platform at the foot of the promontory from where all the
routes are easily reached. The normal abseil line is down the central section. The rock at the top of
the zawn is poor and some care is needed to ensure sale abseil anchors. Pegs may be useful. The
centre of the main cliff fell in 1988 with the loss of classic routes'Pieces of Eight','John Dory'
and'Flotsam'. However, other routes have since been logged in the affected area.
Map ref: G490795
20
www.uniqueascent.ie
Below Deck VD 22m
This route takes the arete on the left-hand side (looking from the sea) of the promontory, opposite the
island. Follow the line of the rather broken arete to the top.
D. Walsh, K. Byrne 16/04/76
Crabp VD 22m
Start: Left of the smooth blank wall is a shallow gully. Start to the left of this. Climb the initial compact
rock to broken rock above. Exit through the gap in the steeper rock above. Loose rock towards the
top.
D. Mitchell, D. Bruce, M. Torrans 10/05/75
Day by the Sea E2 6a 20m
This takes the arete immediately right of where Pieces of Eight used to be. Climb the arete on small
holds. Using the pod on the right gain a small ledge and resting position. From the ledge continue up
the slab to the top. Protection is good but small. This appears to be the same route as "In Memorium
Arete" 1988
N. Harkness 25/05/86
Dolphin's Dump HS 4b 22m
At the bottom of the descent gully into Prawn Zawn there is a prominent corner. This is climbed for
3m, then move up to the right staying parallel with Jetsam. Continue up on long reaches and finish up
a small corner at the top using small holds.
W. Poots, D. Ferguson 05/04/88
Dolphins Do, Climbers Don't VS 4b 24m
Start as for Dolphin's Dump until a ledge is reached at half height. Using a downward pointing flake in
the middle of the face on the left, step down slightly and stretch across to a small foothold. Place
protection before continuing up the left on small ledges. Poorly protected.
W. Poots, D. Ferguson 05/04/88
Jetsam S 4 22m *
Start: at the foot of the wide crack on the right-hand side of the central depression. Climb the wide
crack and into the groove with the overhanging right wall at the top. Bridge between good holds on
the right wall and friction on the left (crux) to the top. Well protected.
D. Walsh, J. Leonard 10/05/75
The Gangplank VS 4c 22m .
Start: To the right and above Jetsam is an obvious wide groove leading up to an overhang. Climb the
groove to reach a small ledge below the overhang. Pull out right through the overhang and into the
corner above (crux). Bridge up the corner to a sloping ledge and on easily to the top.
P. Sloane, P. Coakley 15/04/79
21
www.uniqueascent.ie
Damien Strikes Back HVS 5a 24m
At the left-hand edge of the wall between Gangplank and Vannin is a corner capped by a cracked
overhang at 5m. Climb up to the overhang and swing onto the wall on the right. Climb up left of the
wall on thin holds.
A D. Woodward, W. Poots Nov 88
Vannin VS 4b 22m **
The next two routes start in the obvious corner above and to the right of Gangplank. Vannin Takes the
steep slab/wall on the left of the corner. Climb up groove trending left to the overlap. Pull up with
difficulty using a foothold on the left of the overlap to reach good holds above. Continue up the fault
above to the top with one difficult step to the right about half way.
J. McKenzie, J. Leonard 16/04/76
Gannet's Folly S 3c 16m
Start: Takes the steep ramp on the right of the corner and Vannin. Gain some height on the ramp and
then using the crack on the right-hand side continue up on good jugs to the top.
J. Leonard, D. Walsh 10/05/75
Poop Deck HS 4a 18m *
Start: The route takes the narrow right trending ramp right of Gannet's Folly and above the cave at the
back of the zawn. Move up the ramp 4m to where it steepens towards a vertical groove. Up this with
difficulty until a good handhold on the right edge can be reached. Continue up groove and easy wall
to the top. Protection is available but care is needed as a leader or second fall could result in hanging
free over the cave below.
J. McKenzie, J. Kerr 23/04/76
22
www.uniqueascent.ie
Red Weed VD 15m
The next two routes are on the opposite side of the zawn from Poop Deck. They are reached by
descending easy rock about 75m south of the tower to sea level and traversing into the zawn. Red
Weed starts about 10m right of the back of the cave is a shattered wall/buttress. The route reaches
this by a stab from sea level and finishes up a groove on the right. A poor route on doubtful rock.
P. Coakley, M. McCormick April 81
Seaweed HS 4b 15m
Start: To the right of the slab start of Red Weed is a rib split by a groove. Climb this groove to a black
ledge. Move right into overhanging corner containing big spike. Follow this to the top, treating the
spike and rock with care.
M. McCormick, P. Coakley April 81
The South End
Directions: From the Tower, and the top of Prawn Zawn, the cliff runs south for about 150m to a large
blowhole about 5m back from the cliff edge, and opposite the largest of three rock islands just
offshore. The first 100m of this section is broken and uninteresting, the last 5Om forming the area of
the crag known as the South End. Immediately south of the broken rock area is a promontory which
overlooks an obvious narrow bay area bounded by overhangs and a large slabby area on the north
side. The first four routes are in this area, and most easily reached by an abseil to a large ledge
above a pool to the south of the promontory, or by scrambling with care down a steep rib on the west
side of the promontory. The first three routes start from this ledge and are described from left to right
looking from below.
Map ref: G490795
Lemon Solo VD 30m
Start: At the right-hand end of the ledge above the long narrow pool. Climb the steep slab veering
slightly left at first on small but good holds until just beside the top left-hand corner of the obvious bay
(surrounded by overhangs on the right) and traverse left to climb the top wall at its obvious weakness
on the left. Poor protection, small wires useful.
J. Leonard, D. Walsh 11/05/76
The Wreck of the Hesperus S 3c 25m
Start: Above and to the right of lemon Solo at the bottom of the bay surrounded by overhangs. Climb
the obvious line of weakness on the right-hand side of the slab beneath the first overhang on the right.
Continue up until a step (sometimes wet) left and down leads to the bottom of an obvious
overhanging comer which is climbed by a block and a high jug handle and bridging to the top.
D. Walsh, J. Leonard 11/05/75
Skipper Curran's Corner HS 4a 18m
Start: The dark and obvious corner below the top overhang above and to the right of The Wreck of the
Hesperus. From good ledge belay climb directly up corner groove which arcs at 5m. Make a delicate
step to good handholds and continue left to top and belay.
J. McKenzie, D. Blake 05/06/76
Castaway S 4a 24m
Start: About 15m to the right of Skipper Curran's Corner the obvious cleft on the dark side (north) of
the next promontory which can be reached at low water from the bay area. Belay at the foot of the
cleft and climb the steep cleft above, bridging between good holds on the right and friction on the left.
Excellent protection throughout. Small amount of dubious rock near the top.
D. Walsh, J. Leonard 10/05/75
23
www.uniqueascent.ie
Ancient Mariner VD 30m
The next three routes are located on another obvious promontory to the south of Castaway. There is
a deep overhanging corner immediately south of the promontory followed by a large slab which runs
as far as the cave running into the blowhole. This slab contains a further three routes. Ancient Mariner
starts with an abseil down the rib of the promontory to some large blocks. Traverse left across the
bottom of the promontory slabs for about 10m to reach a higher ledge below the slab above. The
route takes a line from here to finish on the north side of the promontory a few metres from Castaway,
by following a small corner crack on the left side.
J. Leonard, G. Barrett 08/05/79
Shark Back VD 23m
Abseil down as for Ancient Mariner. The route follows a line up the slabs on the south side of the
promontory.
B. Proctor, S.R. Young 31/03/75
Shark's Fin S 23m
Start: Abseil down as for Ancient Mariner. Traverse slightly right round the corner and belay at the
black band. Descend and cross below the black band overhang and onto the smooth slab. Step onto
the right edge and follow this to finish up some dark rock.
S.R. Young, B. Proctor 31/03/75
The following seven routes all start from the ledge above the high tide mark at the far right of the slab
which is reached by abseil. Abseil down to good ledge just above high water at the right-hand side of
the slab. Abseil stakes not in situ.
Topper HS 4b 40m
Traverse left from Rig Jig to the base of a chimney. Bridge up the chimney to 4m before an
overhang, climb rightwards and up onto the slab for 3m. Swing right onto obvious overhanging block
on good holds. Pull round left and climb left on rust-coloured rock to the top.
J. Hume, D. Hanna 06/04/86
Z Z Top S 4a 40m
Climb down slightly onto a fault line. Follow this up and left for 15m to where it ends. Climb the
overlap veering right for 10m to a good stance. Follow a leftward trending crack to complete. Finish at
loose rock at the left-hand corner of the slab.
D. Hanna, B. Mallon, M. McRoberts 07/04/86
Rig Jig S 23m
From the belay ledge traverse left to the centre of the slab. Climb directly to the top via the bulging
smooth section at mid-height.
S.R. Young, B. Proctor 31/03/75
Lazy, Hazy, Crazy Sunshine Days VD 35m
Climb up as for Keel. Where the crack widens, trend right, follow the slab up left for 5m. Exit easily
straight up.
B. Mallon, D. Hanna, M. McRoberts 07/04/86
Keel VD 23m
From the belay follow the obvious crack line near the right-hand edge of the slab.
B. Proctor, S.R. Young 31/03/75
24
www.uniqueascent.ie
Pugwash VD 24m
Climb the tilted groove to the right of the belay to the right edge of the slab. Follow this edge, which
overhangs the cave and gives fine positions, to the top.
M. Curran, D. Loughrey 27/05/75
Over the Top VS 35m
Climb the outside edge of the ramp. From the right-hand corner of the ramp step back right onto a
ledge above a cave. Step right and surmount overhangs on good holds. Go into small recesses and
step right awkwardly and climb the bulge with difficulty (crux). Continue up and exit left.
B. Mallon, D. Hanna 07/04/86
If the cliff is followed from the South End in the direction of the harbour, there is a long finger of land
pointing south and forming a long narrow inlet. There are a number of possibilities for long easy
routes on the walls and crest of this rib.
Duan Head
Directions: Looking out to sea from the harbour there is a long rocky coastline culminating in Duan
Head - the promontory separating the harbour and the Silver Strand. The initial rocky coastline is
generally low, broken and in areas loose. Many short routes have been done but it is not thought
worth recording exact details. The best potential of this section lies in sea level traverses, and
bouldering here on a hot summers day can be very enjoyable. On Duan Head, the climbing is more
serious. The routes are the longest to be found in the Malin Beg area but unfortunately marred by an
area of poor rock at the top of the crag. Descent is made by an abseil from stakes (which will probably
not be in place) to a large platform during low to mid tide.
25
www.uniqueascent.ie
Map ref: G496795
Fialail HVS 5a 50m
Start: Route takes the obvious hanging ramp on the left wall of the zawn on the left-hand side of the
crag.
1) 30m (5a) Up some blocks and make some awkward moves to gain the ramp. Climb this ramp until
a few exposed layback moves lead to a belay ledge.
2) 20m Up the ledges for 3m. Traverse right and up on quartz holds. Straight up to the top on
increasingly doubtful rock.
P. Holmes, T. Fogg 1982
Man Dear S 55m
Start: At the first obvious corner at far left of the wave cut platform next to the big overhang at high
water mark.
1) 10m Climb the corner and exit to belay on the left.
2) 45m Up and trend left tot he bottom of a very steep corner. Left again to a ramp corner and up to
very bad mud and rock to the top.
P. Hall, T. Fogg 21/06/81
Phil Your Boots S 50m
Start: At the obvious delta groove with overhangs above.
1) 42m Climb the ramp on the left edge of the delta, i.e., trending right. Move left up steeper ground
to gain bigger ledges and belay after 15m.
2) 8m Straight up to the top on loosening ground.
T. Fogg, P. Hall 21/06/81
Tuam Na Farraige VS 4b 50m
Start: On the right edge of the delta groove mentioned above.
1) 40m Trend right, then left to gain the overhang at the foot of the delta. Climb this and two more to
gain a groove. Move right to an easier groove and belay.
2) 10m Up left to join Phil Your Boots and finish.
T. Fogg, P. Hall 21/06/81
Tritwo VS 4c 55m
Start: 6m right of Tuam Na Farraige.
1) 25m Up a thin crack in left of a corner. Climb to the overhangs and turn them to the left by a
worrying move or two to gain a ledge. Rising traverse left to belay ledge.
2) 30m Up to a scoop then slightly left of a grass filled groove on friable rock to the top.
K. Quinn, T. Fogg 29/07/81
Spanish Frenzy HS 50m
Start: At the right-hand side of the crag at the corner.
1) 40m Climb the corner finger crack, bridging at the steepest section (crux). Easier to belay on a
ledge with a big spike.
2) 10m Rightish to the top on easy but loose ground.
K. Quinn, T. Fogg 1981
Rathlin O'Byrne
Directions: Rathlin O'Byrne SW3 This is an island situated about 2.5km off the coast from Malin Beg,
and is a familiar sight to most who climb there (it is the one with the lighthouse). From Malin Beg it
appears to be a large mound of grass and rock rising out of the sea about 2.5km away. It is, but
surprisingly is not completely uninteresting from the rock-climber's point of view. The island is divided 
26
www.uniqueascent.ie
by two chasms, plus another sizeable zawn, all with virgin rock similar to that on Malin Beg. The
following routes were done on the east-facing side of the second chasm. Approach from Malin Beg
harbour by sea kayak. There is a considerable number of unclimbed lines here of all grades. ,
Descent is by abseil from a rocky pinnacle left of the finish of Footsteps In the Sand (see below)
Map ref: 490795
Footsteps in the Sand VS 4c 21m *
Left of Robinson Crusoe (see below) is an obvious corner leading to the top of the crag. The route
follows the obvious slab and corner. Small wires can be placed in the corner, and the crux is at twothirds
height. A good route.
G. Walker, J. Sheilds 13/07/90
The Bluffer D 12m
Climb the obvious deep chimney three metres to the left of the previous route.
C. Shannon, G. Henry 25/07/00
Robinson Crusoe VD 20m
Start just right of an undercut arete. Move up on good holds to a small ledge. Step up and trend right
to a short wall. Finish up this to a belay boulder about 6m back.
J. Shields, G. Walker 13/07/90
Swiss Family Robinson S 4A
Start a few metres right of Robinson Crusoe at the edge of cleaner rock. Easily up-flat holds to the
ledge on Robinson Crusoe. Step up and left to a shallow groove. Continue at a shallower angle to the
top.
G. Walker
Man Friday VS 4C 15m *
This route takes the obvious corner and slab to the right with a small overhang on one-third height.
Go up the corner with good protection, surmount the overhang (crux) using a small hold on the left,
and onto easier ground up the bulging wall. From here make an exposed but enjoyable hand traverse
left to a possible hanging belay below a short wall which is climbed to finish. Belay at the boulder 6m
back. A good route.
G. Walker. J. Shields 13/07/90
Spot the Dog HVS 5a 17m
The route starts 6m right of Man Friday up an obvious groove. Climb a rough line steeply to a
horizontal break at half height. Enter the groove using small holds on the left wall (crux) and continue
more ea: ily above this to a ledge. A belay is best taken on the ledge just below the top. (Poorly
protected).
G. Walker. J. Shields 13/07/90
D A Fruits HS 15m
The next five routes listed are all north of the lighthouse, just below the high wall. Abseil onto good
ledges using the wall as an anchor. Climb the arete at the end of the inlet, below the corner of the
wall. Climb left side of arete until it is possible to gain the arete proper. Climb to ledge beneath THE
steep head wall. Make airy moves (crux) to the top.
G. Henry, C. Shannon 25/07/00
First of Many HS 15m
3m to the left of the arete, looking up. Climb up black wall into alcove. Surmount overhang using good
holds above.
C. Shannon, G. Henry 25/07/00
27
www.uniqueascent.ie
Thanks to Pintail HS 15m
5m to the left of arete. First right gaining corner with overhang at half height. Climb corner to
overhang and ascend ramp above
G. Henry, C. Shannon 25/07/00
One Before Dinner VD 12m
Next right gaining corner split by two overhangs. climb corner.
G. Henry, C. Shannon 25/07/00

Colmcille Climbers Donegal Ireland