1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Muckish Mountain
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Muckish Mountain
McSwyne's Buttress
Directions: Approx. 2km out of Creeslough, on the Dunfanaghy Rd, turn left opposite graveyard and
follow this road, which becomes unmetalled, as far as you can. McSwyne’s Buttress is high up on
Muckish, to the left of the prominent stone chute. Access is by a faint zig-zag track to the left of the
chute. Due to its location, this crag should only be climbed after a period of reasonably dry weather,
and is best in the evening.
Map ref: C009292
Crackatee S 3c 10m
About 23m left of the top of Tory Canyon there is an off-width crack. To the right of this is an
undulating wall. Climb the crack, the angle eases half way up.
A. Tees. R. Smith 03/08/82
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Leitrim's Ladder VD 10m
About 12m right of Crackatee is a wide crack rising in steps with jammed chockstones.
A, Tees. P. McCandless 07/08/83
Fadge D 8m
About 6m. right of 'Leitrims Ladder' is an obvious easy corner.
A. Tees, C. McLaughlin. 05/09/99
Surge VS 4c 5m
1 m left of `Fadge' , is a right-angled corner. Move up rightwards into it, and attack the crux using a
small flake in the corner, and foothold on the left arete. Continue up the corner to the top more easily.
C. McLaughlin, A. Tees 05/09/99
Fadge D 8m
About 6m. right of 'Leitrims Ladder' is an obvious easy corner.
A. Tees, C. McLaughlin. 05/09/99
Exile Freezie VD 12m
The route goes up the edge of a prominent arete left of the main crag.
R. Lee, A. Tees May 77
I am the Walrus VD 12m
Start as for Exile Freezie Traverse left into jagged crack system leading past a Tusk/spike to the top.
S. Hamilton, A. Tees 05/08/79
Tory Canyon S 4a 27m
Climb the obvious crack line about 7m left of the square roof at the centre of the buttress. Exit right
through a window.
A. Tees, R. Smith 03/08/82
Male Cross Dresser Support Group E1 5a 12m
Start 3m right of Tory Canyon. Make easy moves up to an expansive ledge at 2m. Traverse right
below the roof and from the right end of the ledge reach up for good holds. Make a disconcerting
traverse along the lip of the roof for 2m rightwards and finish direct.
D. O'Sullivan, J. Dugdale 05/07/92
Catholic Girls HVS 5a 12m
In the middle of McSwyne's Buttress lies a huge, square-cut overhang. Start on the left-hand wall
under this overhang. Gain the horizontal break, and traverse to the left arete. Climb this for 3m and
then move slightly leftwards across a horizontal break (good gear further left) to finish directly up the
slab, just right of Catholic Girls.
D. O'Sullivan, J. Dugdale 05/07/92
Readers Wives E1 5c 12m
Start at the right arete of the wall below the large overhang. Climb the arete easily until level with the
roof. Move into the obvious crack and climb this to the top. Well protected.
D. O'Sullivan, J. Dugdale 05/07/92
Act The Maggot S 60m
1: Start in the corner behind square overhang and follow ledge up and over large jammed boulder.
2: Scramble up over mixed ground to traverse right to base of narrow chimney.
3: Climb chimney with an undignified move to emerge at the top.
A. Tees, R. Lee May 77
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Winkelpicker S 4a 12m
About 10m right of Act the Maggot there is a crack about one-third way up. Climb up on small holds
to a ledge and continue left to the top.
A. Tees, R. Smith Sept 78
Equus VS 4c 12m
Approximately Sm left of HMS Wasp steep holds can be found leading to a shallow groove. Scale up
these to this, above which thinnish climbing will deposit one on the top. Nice bold climbing on good
rock. Stake belay in situ.
G. Colhoun, A. Tees 10/09/89
Razorback E3 5b 12m
Rip-roaring climbing up the sharp arete left of the nose of Lord Inchiquin and immediately left of the
corner of HMS Wasp. Climb the undercut arete on its left, slabby side, to a foot ledge. Now, finish up
a metre or so left of the arete, where a crank will bring you nose-to-nose with a flat hold and thence
salvation. Utterly serious climbing with the crux being saved for the last move.
N Grimes, solo, A Millar
H.M.S.Wasp VS 4c 12m
This takes the slightly overhanging right-angled corner left of Lord Inchiquin. Frequently wet.
A. Tees, G. Colhoun 10/09/89
Lord Inchiquin HS 4b 60m
About 5m right of Winkelpickler there is a nose with a gap at the bottom.
1: On the other side there is a crack in the corner which is climbed to a terrace.
2: Climb corner above to ledge below overhang.
3: Move left and climb steep corner on good holds.
A. Tees, R. Smith, S. Hamilton Aug 77
General Galtieri's Corned Beef Butty VS 4b 12m
This takes the shallow nose just left of the Great Stone Chute. Start: From a large jammed block at
its base. Climb the nose and step awkwardly right to gain a crack. Climb this to the top.
R. Smith, A. Tees 03/08/82
The Wizard VS 4b 12m
Start about 3m right of Galtieris Corned Beef Bully. Climb slab and surmount overhang and shelf
before moving right into corner. Layback up crack to top.
A. Tees, R. Smith 03/08/82
Boom Boom E2 5b 10m
This climbs the wall right of Warm Up and immediately left of the superb arete on the upper section of
McSwyne's Buttress. Start at the toe of the arete. Easy climbing leads up for 4m and then left to a
large flake. Move up to a narrow ledge and left again for 2m to a block and crack. Go up and tend
right and back left again to finish direct up the centre of the wall. Bold climbing, but low in the grade.
D. O'Sullivan, J. Dugdale 05/07/92
Warm Up VS 4b 20m
Scramble up to base of wide fissure in corner high up on right hand side of crag. In the right-hand
wall a slightly overhanging crack is found. Climb it and veer left to the top. A strenuous climb,
especially in the wet.
M. Manson, A. Tees Oct 77
Gin Trap S 4a 12m
Below and right of Warm Up there is a corner above a ledge at about 2m. Climb to ledge and up 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
corner surmounting overhang rock on the left. Continue up corner rightwards to the top.
A. Tees, M. Manson Oct 77
Soaring Forties HS 4b 14m
Start just across the Stone Chute from Balor's Pinnacle is an obvious tower in two tiers. On its
righthand side is a corner with fine cracks in it. Climb corner until able to move left to edge and up to
platform. Wide crack leads to smaller ledge and further crack to the top.
A. Tees, R. Smith 22/05/83
Forty Winks VS 4b 14m
On the left-hand side of the tower is an obvious right angled corner which is climbed. This route
finishes with the third crack mentioned in Soaring Forties.
A. Tees, R. Smith 22/05/83
Balor's Buttress
Directions: The crag on the right of the big stone chute, on the right of McSwynes. The prominent
Balor’s Pillar marks its left hand side. Easiest access is by traversing left from the Miners Track. Or
alternatively a tricky crossing of the stone chute, if approaching from the left.
Map ref: C008292
The first two routes climb the prominent Balor’s Pillar at the top of the crag, both routes start in the
col between the main face and the pillar.
An Gaeta Oscailte E1 5a 10m ***
Despite it's shortness this is an excellent route with adequate protection. Belay on good crack on 
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
grassy ledge bellow pillar's base on the side of the big gully. Start up the off-width crack in the center
of the pillar. Go up and right on good holds to thin ledge and horizontal crack on face. Delicate moves
diagonally left onto face and then up to big holds on ledge above. Finish easily to the top. Very good
belay on top.
M. Przybylski, A. Tinney, P. Tinney 15/09/14
Tur Criostail E2 5a/b 10m **
Bold and worthy with crux on the lower half. Climb up to pulpit where you can place large cam. The
last and only protection. Climb up to small square cut ledge on the right. Few delicate moves gains
better holds on face and arete(crux). Climb on to the top using arete and features on the face. Big
jugs to finish.
M. Przybylski, A. Tinney, P. Tinney 15/09/14
The following two routes are found in the steep wall overlooking Balor’s Pillar in the huge gully behind
the pillar, go left and up a faint path on the right side of the huge gully. Look back and up to the rock
wall on your right. There are two good clean cracks. I.A.T.A. takes the one on the right about 4 meters
left of the buttress corner and Nata is the crack about 12 meters to the left.
Nata HVS 5a 26m ***
Belay in corner below crack. Climb up with ease arête on your left for about 6 meters to start of crack.
Climb crack on good protection until a move can be made into a short slopping corner on the left
about 4 meters from the top (crux). Finish up corner. Good belay at top.
M. Przybylski, P. Tinney. 22/06/14
I.A.T.A. E1 5b 28m **
Belay in short corner below crack. Climb the arete left of the corner moving right to base of crack.
Gain the crack by making a tricky move in from the left (direct start possible at this same grade). Two
or three Size 3 camalots uesful. Hand/Fist crack on good protection to top.
M. Przybylski, P. Tinney. 22/06/14
The following routes are found in the crags around the base of Balor’s Pillar.
Pedestal Route S 4b 20m
Start on a 1 m platform in a small alcove below Balor's Pinnacle. Climb edge to right to reach base of
bulging crack which climbed to platform and ledge. Continue up back wall to pinnacle base.
A. Tees, S. Hamilton 05/08/79
The Quemadero E2 5a 15m
The arete left of 'Thera'. Start from just left of 'Thera's' start, take a rising leftwards traverse, above
roof/corner wide bridge-out for arete. Gain a stance on the left of the arete, small wire and sling can
be placed. Next gear is a horizontal crack, approx 1M below top, takes very small cam (00); good
edges on right hand of arete help to finish. Bold
P. Cooper, G. Thomas 29/04/07
Thera HVS 5a 12m **
This route climbs the wall at the base of Balors Pinnacle. Climb the obvious crack (strenuous) to
platform at top.
B. Patton, R. Smith 25/04/82
An Phouca VS 4b 12m
This route takes the right-angled corner just right of Thera. A dry weather route.
A. Tees 07/08/83
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Panhandel VD 12m
At the base of Balor's Pedestal on the crag's left-hand side is a corner. Locate cracks about 3m right
and climb them to a spike. From there holds lead leftwards to the top. There is an easier angled, but
more vegetated alternative route to the spike on the right.
M. Manson, A. Tees Oct 77
Piggy Back VS 5a 12m
At the right hand edge of the wall, at a right angle to Thera Wall (and right of Panhandel) there is a
big perched rock. Thin climbing below and left of this to gain the notch between the rock and the arête
with easier climbing up the arete above.
A. Tees, G. Thomas 29/04/07
Nineteen Racoons VS 4c 28m
Behind Balor's pinnacle, surmount two ledges and traverse right to base of chimney. Climb the arete
forming the left-hand edge of chimney. The bulge at the top is the crux.
R. Smith, B. Patton 12/04/82
Crucifiction VS 4b 15m
Locate wall on left of Blackfriar's Chimney split by horizontal and vertical cracks forming a cross.
Climb vertical crack (starting on left and finishing on the right).
A. Tees, R. Smith 12/07/79
Blackfriar’s Chimney HS 4b 25m
To the left of the central overhangs ia a prominent corner. Climb the chimney in the corner past an
awkward chock and steep vegetation and back onto rock towards the top
S. Hamilton, A. Tees May 1976
The Fomorians E2 5c 25m ***
Start about 5 meters right of the corner with Crucifiction, just before the large roofs. Use a poor
handhold to gain small jugs in horizontal break, move right along break to gain over hanging flake and
then up finger crack to good ledge (crux). Good protection at ledge. Make way delicately up face
above to crack (small cams) Finish up the face on good holds.
P. Tinney, M. Przybylski 22/06/14
Nutcracker S 4a 50m
At extreme right-hand corner of buttress locate a ramp. Climb it and go straight up questionable
looking projecting blocks to grassy ledge. Proceed up jammed rocks to spike, swing round it and into
large chimney which is easily climbed to another ledge. Follow rightward cracks to small shelf and the
top. Lower reaches are loose!
R. Lee, A. Tees May 1976
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
HOG'S BACK BUTTRESS
Pop D 34m
Start at the left side of the outcrop, below cave (lower tier of Hog's Back). Climb to a ledge and then
up a vertical crack to the top (loose rock).
R. Smith, J. Scott 18/07/82
Thundercrack HS 4b 35m
About 40m right of the great cave, on the "Hogs Back" Buttress (across the amphitheatre and right of
the Miners Track) there is an obvious chimney system. Climb this to the top where an awkward exit is
made to the right under roof and then left (crux) to top.
R. Wray, A. Tees 11/05/80
Barbarian VS 4b 40m
Start 5m left of Thundercrack. Climb into open-bottomed chimney. Move out left and pull up onto
ledge. The route then follows the wall beside Thundercrack on small holds until forced left (delicate) at
top to small peaty ledge. Scramble to top.
R. Wray, A. Tees 11/05/80
9
www.uniqueascent.ie