1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers Guide
To
Owey Island
By
Iain Miller
Many thanks to the troopers
Emma Ross, John McCune, Paul Swail, Alan Tees, Bill McGowan, Craig Hiller

www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Owey Island
Owey Island sits off the Northern tip of Cruit Island and is only accessible by a short passenger
ferry crossing. The ferry runs from the far northern end of Cruit Island from the pier below the golf
course club house and berths at the South East tip of Owey Island. This superb natural harbour on
Owey provides lee from 90% of sea states alas it does not cope very well with large North to North
East motion as the harbour entrance can be closed by violent white water.
Always give Dan the ferryman a call on 00353 (0) 866013893 prior to leaving home for Owey to
ensure the ferry is running.
The climbing on Owey can be easily subdivided into two distinct sections, the Western End and
the Eastern End. These two climbing areas at opposite end of the island each provide lee from the
predominant South West and North West sea motions. With carful observation of the current and
predicted sea states climbing on the island can be achieved in all but the most extreme nautical rage.
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
The climbing on Owey is very similar to the much better known Gola Island, in terms of atmosphere
and setting. Many of the cliffs require a slightly more adventurous approach with most of the routes
having only ever been climbed once.
A short film of Owey Island
There are a couple of accommodation options for an overnight stay on the island, Owey Home Stay
provide both self catering and Bed & Breakfast accommodation in their newly renovated cottage in the
centre of the island. There are very limited facilities on the island with wild camping as the only
alternative option for an overnight stay. The area of flat ground around the harbour is the ideal
campsite with the old stone walls providing excellent shelter. The only source of fresh water is the
stream that runs through the village on the island, during periods of dry weather this stream can get a
wee bit low and brown in colour. The best advice for visiting the island is to take everything you need
with you. It is very possible to make a day trip to Owey and get good climbing done, simply give Dan a
call and arrange crossings.
Nordkapp Slabs
Directions: About 300m North of the harbour is a long and narrow canyon separating Owey from two
small islands. It is possible to scramble down the Southern end where you will find two solid granite
slabs. One is a black triangular affair with a deep sideways chimney on its right hand side. The other,
a square slab, is around the corner to the right. Both slabs are capped by overhangs, and have well
protected routes.
Map ref: B719234
Nordkapp Slabs from the Eastern Sea Stack
Thor S 4a 20m
This fine climb follows the juggy flutings one metre left of the prominent arete beside Nordkapp to
reach an exposed position on the arete itself, before stepping slightly left to join a shallow chimney to
the top.
D. Carden, R. Dexter-Spooncer Aug 10
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Nordkapp VS 25m ***
Climb the right trending corner, shelf at one-third height, crux just above this, gaining the twist of the
corner.
D. Walsh, P. Butcher June 91
Nordkapp Right Hand VS 4c 25m
As for Nordkapp, after crux move right and follow the crack BUT is climbed on it's right, for that
feeling of exposure. Direct up the crack is the natural line but nowhere near as rewarding.
P. Cooper, D. Millar, V. Schaefer 25/06/07
Bumbler's Revenge E1 5b 25m
Climb Sting until just above half height, below an obvious looking line that runs about a couple of
metres out on the face from the corner of Sting. Step up into groove and climb this to top.
M. Hassan, A. Feeney, PJ Monaghan 20/06/09
Sting VS 25m
Climb the left side of the triangular slab, the double jutting corner above providing a strenuous crux.
D Walsh, P Butcher June 91
400K S 25m
Climb the fluted cracks to the right of the triangular slab easily. Gently gain and follow the shallow
corner in the prow above to finish.
D. Walsh, F. Cooney P. Butcher June 91
Bottomless Slab VS 4c 20m
The square black slab right of the previous routes is bounded on its left by a black corner with a crack
1 m to its right, this has a deep crack on its right, and twin shallow cracks up the middle. Climb the
corner/crack on the extreme left of the square black slab to a small stance, then athletically and
committingly (crux) left and up to just under a small square-cut overhang where it is possible to step
left onto the bottomless slab which faces the canyon, up which to top. The belay is well back on a
boulder.
D. Walsh, F. Crowley Sept 93
Spoiled for Choice VS 4b 30m
Up the broken rock on left of the square black slab (right of crack) to small stance (shared with
previous route), and gain the bottom left of intermediate diagonal slab above overlap at top of black
slab. Finish direct.
F. Crowley, D. Walsh Sept 93
High Tension E1 5b 25m
Start on the left side of the square black slab. Climb to ledge at 4m to gain base of a steep
corner/grove and crack. Climb the bulging crack and groove over several overlaps and trending
rightwards at the top. The tension referred to is the product of the steep committing climb, which only
eases at the top.
S. MacGearailt J. McCann Sept 93
Deadline E1 5b 20m
Begin at the corner formed between the black square east facing slab and the north facing wall on
the left, scramble up to the base of the corner which is steeper than initially perceived, hard technical
climbing on the wall to the left of the corner gains the base of the easier angled deep grove/gully
above. Climb this grove in a more relaxed mood passing a jammed rock near the top.
S. MacGearailt J. McCann Sept 93
Up the Creek E1 25m *
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
Climb the shallow twin cracks in centre of slab (crux at 15m near top of slab). Turn the first overhang
on the right airily, above a small overlap. Turn the second overhang left of a V groove, finishing
leftwards.
D. Walsh, P. Butcher June 91
The Canyon
Across the channel from the Hordkapp Slabs are two sea stacks. Moving north along the coast, to
where there is a channel out to sea, creating two small islands on the seaward side of the canyon.
North of this break. Where the canyon, formed by the islets and isle, narrows to three metres forming
an obvious large corner on the second of the small Islands the following routes are found opposite
this corner (Owey Island side).
Access is by abseil down the narrow south facing wall and belay at the high tide mark.
Routes cannot be seen, unless you have a boat, before abbing - this may have led to them not
seeing many ascents; despite them being amongst the earliest of Owey's routes.
The Canyon from the base of the Nordkapp Slabs.
Reliable Seagull VS 30m
From the belay traverse left past the blind corner and climb along the base of the east facing wall for
4m to reach a wide crack system that leads to a bulge at 15m. Climb the bulge on excellent holds to
top.
T. O'Brien, J. McCann Sept 93
Canyonland VS 20m
From the same belay climb the narrow chimney and fluted cracks that splits the narrow south facing
wall. Some spiky jams bring you above the overhang and are followed by delicate crystalline bridging
and pinching in the crack system.
P. Breen, S. MacGearailt Sept 93
Gale Warning VS 4b 17m
Abseil down the shallow corner and cracks and take a semi-hanging belay at some small ledges and
spikes. Climb the steep green wall using the left crack for layoffs to gain the base of the corner which 
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
gives an easier finish.
S. MacGearailt, O. Cougat Sept 93
Captain Gallagher E1 5a 16m
Start on the wall 1 m left of Storm Force, climb strenuously over the lower bulges to gain the ramp
and move left delicately (crux), climb wall above on a series of right trending ledges to top.
M. McCormick, B. Proctor Sept 93
Star Bank VS 4b 17m
Start 2m to the right of Gale Warning. The route takes the right hand side of the series of cracks
finishing up the narrow corner to the left of the final steps of Captain Gallagher. Excellent protection.
M. McCormick, B. Proctor Sept 93
Storm Force E2 6b 16m
Using same abseil as last two routes swing right to a large comfortable ledge at high tide level in an
alcove formed by opposing comers and an overhanging wall. Climb the left-hand leaving corner of the
alcove using a wide crack/chimney that narrows to hand jam size higher up. Pull strenuously over a
small overlap and break out left to a good ledge and rest (shared with Captain Gallagher). From the
ledge move back right and using a thin hidden crack at the back of the niche reach for a good hold
and pull up onto a smaller ledge (crux). Several more moves remain before the top.
S. MacGearailt, O. Cougat, M. McCormick Sept 93
The Northwest Passage HS 4b 16m
The next feature that is easily identifiable from the top is the stepped ramp of Shakespeare's Women,
just to the south of this lies the shallow black north facing corner of Black September with a square
ledge at its base. Left of Black September there is a face/wall with a direct finish up a steep crack.
Start as for Black September. Traverse left for 4m onto a steep face that is pleasantly climbed on big
holds and good gear. Finish left or alternatively climb the thin crack direct at 5b.
P. Breen, S. Mac Gearailt Sept 93
Black September E1 5b 16m
A shallow black right facing corner and crack with a small overhang at 4m. Climb the crack and
corner which is more strenuous than it looks but well protected.
S. MacGearailt, P. Breen, M. McCormick Sept 93
Northern Light HVS 5a 12m
From the square ledge slightly right of Black September there is a bulging crack leading straight up.
Climb the crack which is strenuous and finish up a series of small ledges where the protection is just
adequate.
S. MacGearailt, P. Breen, M. McCormick Sept 93
Shakespeare's Women S 16m
The cliff lies back slightly here with a series of large steps and ramps that trend rightwards. This is
probably the most identifiable feature on this face. At the base of this route runs a narrow ledge 1/2
meters wide running for about six meters in length. This route follows these ramps to the top.
M. McCormick Sept 93
Tales of Nadia VS 5a 16m
At 2m right of the base of Shakespeare's Women is a crack system leading to a large block at 4m.
Climb the crack and turn the block on the left continue up wall to top.
M. McCormick, B. Proctor Sept 93
Mick's Chimney HVS 5a 16m
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
This route takes the second crack to the right of Tales of Nadia climb the crack for 3m to gain the
rightward trending flaky ramp. Follow this to join the non-obvious chimney to top.
T. O'Brien, J. McCann Sept 93
Greater Leap Isles (Tor Lice Riseagh)
Grid Reference B718233 on Owey Island, 10 minutes North of the harbour. There are two sea stacks
known as the Leap Isles (or Tor Lice Riseagh). These are just North of Nordkapp etc and are
separated from the main island, and each other, by narrow channels. Access by canoe and pendulum
on the first ascent. Descent by abseil or tyrolean.
The following two routes are on the stack nearest mainland Donegal.
Window Route VD 27m
An obvious rectangular window through the sea stack on the left hand side looking out to sea is The
Window. Starting at sea level up to a ledge and bridge up the window to a large slab of rock and an
easy scramble to the top.
M. McGuigan, A. Tees, B. Magowan June 2007
Shannon collective VS 15m
Climb the first steep corner on the Island directly opposite 'sting'. The island is called Tor Lice
Riseach, the rock of the flags of thong weed. Access by swim and tesco inflatable aeroplane on the
first ascent.
S.J. Read, E. Mullen June 2010
The following routes are on the sea ward face of the stack.
A Day in the Life VS 4c 24m **
Climb the thin cracks and small holds immediately right of the groove.
I. Miller, M. Ibanez 22/08/16
Cloud of Midgies VS 5a 24m *
Climb the next crack line right with and excellent well protected finish.
I. Miller, M. Ibanez 22/08/16
The next two routes are on the Donegal end of the sea ward face of the left stack as you face out to
sea from Owey. Access to the base of the routes is by easy sea level traverse from the Atlantic end of
the stack.
Rookies Roost S 4a 15m
Climb the deep chimney.
I. Miller, L. O’Connor, J. Bags 03/07/14
Waiting Wife VS 4b 20m
Climb the centre of the slab with thoughtful gear and excellent rock.
I. Miller, L. O’Connor, J. Bags 03/07/14
In the next bay north of the Canyon, there is a steep clean buttress that projects from the southern
side. The following three routes are described when viewed from above looking out to sea.
Pearl Harbour HS 4b 15m
On the left hand side of the buttress there is a deep north-west facing corner, Pearl Harbour follows
the corner to the top.
0. Cougat. B. McDevitt Sept 93
Pearl Jam HS 12m
To the right (facing out) of Pearl Harbour climb the steep but straightforward crack in the west facing
wall.
B. McDevitt, O. Cougat Sept 93
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
The climbs not over until the pumped leader Screams HVS 5a 25m
On the right hand (eastern) side of the buttress, this route takes the two stage corner starting from a
ledge about 5m above the sea. Climb the lower part of the corner to a large ledge then get stuck into
the second section which is steep and off putting, or wait until the top rope arrives.
O. Cougat, B. McDevitt Sept 93
Abseil to low tide level, to the left (facing the sea) of the obvious promontory in Green Bay.
Green Bay Packer HVS 4c 25m
Abseil to low tide level to the left (facing the sea) of the obvious promontory in Green Bay. Scramble
around to the base of the arete and start climbing one metre to the right of it (facing the rock).
Continue close to the arete to the second platform. From here climb on the edge till a delicate move
right leads to cracks and good holds. Continued to the top just to the right of the arete. The top four
metres are enlivened if you can bring a consumer society approach to the climbing and the holds.
T. O'Brien, O. Cougat, B. McDevitt Sept 93
The Friendly Bag Lady E1 5b 20m
3 metres left of GBP abseil to low tide level.
M. McCormick. T. O'Brien, N. Leonard April 96
On the north wall of the bay approximately 3 minutes walk north of The Canyon.
Call me Ishmael E1 5b 30m
On the north side of bay/zawn is an obvious clean cut rightward-trending steep crack which leads up
to a corner and an overhang, the crack continues through this. A good seated belay position is at the
top, just under a handy belay block.
P. Cooper & V. Schafer 24/08/08
Cladagharoan (Bay of Seals)
The next bay along the coast contains a very prominent slender needle stack, “Stackamillion” and a
long loose rocky ridge above an impressive sea arch. Access to sea level is by grassy abseil down
the groove at the back of the bay, ab stake required. Grid Ref B 715237
Stackamillion
Blade, E2 5b 20m **
Grid Reference B716237 From the top of the landward platform climb the wide groove to the small
capping roof. (2 pegs) Pull through the roof to an airy wee stance, trend seaward and up to summit on
rattling blocks.
Andrzej Smialy & Party 4/07/03
Cladagharoan, SVR 3c 35m
Grid Reference B717236. This stack is found to the seaward side of Stackamillion. Access is by a
40m abseil and an atmospheric wee sea passage to the non tidal platform at the West end of the
seaward face. (nearest Stackamillion) Abseil descent of the route from the insitu stake on the summit
ridge.
Pitch 1. 3c 25m. Climb the very obvious groove directly above the non tidal platform to the Ab stake
on the summit ridge.
Pitch 2. 10m. Carefully scramble/crawl to the summit
I. Miller, E. Ross, C. Gleeson 20/06/09
Out to sea and round the corner along the coast from the Bay of Seals
The Spire V.Diff 15m *
Grid Reference B716239. This stack sits off the North West tip of Owey, it sits immediately to the
South of the "Big Block Stack," which is very easily seen from the Owey ferry pier on Cruit. It is very 
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
effectively guarded by 60m cliffs and conflicting seas for over a Km along the coast. It's location is
outstanding.
Climb the South ridge on immaculate granite.
Access by guile. :-)
I. Miller 06/05/11
Big Block Stack Film
Big Block Stack S 15m *
Grid Reference B716239. This stack sits off the North West tip of Owey and is very easily seen from
the Owey ferry pier on Cruit. It is very effectively guarded by 60m cliffs and conflicting seas for over a
Km along the coast. It's location is outstanding.
Climb the deep left trending crack/groove on the sea ward (East) face.
The summit takes green in BIG West and North West seas, the entire stack is immaculate rock. :-)
Access is an involved and emotional affair. :-)
I. Miller 06/05/11
Ladaghroan Slabs
Beyond the Bay of Seals the coastline travels north for about 400 meters and is very broken. (This
section of coastline is referred to as (Ladaghroan on 6 inch OS). At this point it turns west and a large
slab 45 meters in height at an angle of 70 degrees with an obvious big block sea stack directly
opposite, the following three routes are on this slab.
ladaghroan Slabs from the big Block Stack
Cormorant HS 4b 45m
Cormorant is the corner/grove on the left (southern end)
J McCann Sept 93
Shadow Dancer VS 38m
In the middle of the slab, a crack goes to a headwall, which is turned on the left loose blocks to the
top.
M. McCormick, B. Proctor Sept 93
Wavedance VS 4c 38m
Takes a shallow crack on the right side of the slab, climb this to the overlap, then back right and
follow parallel flared cracks to the top.
S. MacGearailt, P. Breen, R. Toal Sept 93
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Bun na Maochall Zawn
From the cliff tops overlooking the Big Block Stack and the top of the Ladaghroan Slab follow the cliff
tops for approx. 400 meters to a huge deep cut zawn. The following two routes climb the far left wall
as you face out to sea, abseil access. Grid Ref B712232
Hole in the clouds HS 50m
Climb the huge corner and arête on the right at the sea ward end of the left wall in the zawn
D. Millar, I. Krella 27/08/2008
Twelfth Day E1 5b 25m
Good steep climbing with good protection, but beware of loose rock. Climb the steep wall left of the
second pitch of Hole In The Clouds. Belay as for that route. Climb the crack in the middle of the wall
starting on jugs then using rounded flake pinches. Sustained. Move right to easier ground at around
15m to avoid a large hollow flake and climb more easily to the top.
P. Brennan, D. Millar, M. Bonner 12/7/2010
An Sron Buttress
Approximately 200 meters from the Bun na Maochall Zawn lives Owey island’s most dramatic piece
of rock. An Sron (The Nose) is a 60 metre high North West facing corner made up on two very distinct
and very different walls. The left wall of the corner being continuous vertical and split on it’s left side
by the deep crackline “Fat Arsed Crack,” and terminating at the junction of the two walls at a deep
soaring offwidth taken by “Demise of the Rockstar.” The right wall of the crag is continually
overhanging and comprises of a collection of huge roofs with a series of immaculate crack lines
running through round and over them. Access is by a 60 meter free hanging abseil down The Itchy
Nose exit groove. Grid Ref B710237
Fat Arse Crack E3/4 60m
On the left side of the left wall climb the full crag height wide crack.
M. Walsh, D. O’Sullivan 2011
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
An Sron from sea level
A carefully set up free hanging abseil (60m) reaches a ledge at the base of the crack to start routes
“Demise of the Rockstar” and “Rainshadow.”
Demise of the Rockstar E3 5c 60m ***
Climb the massive steep deep crack at the side of the Zawn. Start in an open groove at the base of 
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
the cleft or as low as the sea allows. Climb using a combination of squirming, jug hauling, caving and
bridging, outside and inside the crack. Possible belay at half height. Crux at the top with an overhang
Start as low as the sea allows.
J. McCune, K. Kilroy
Rainshadow E4 6b 70m ***
Pitch 1: 5a 30m Climb the groove to a diagonal ramp. Continue up the roof and cracks to a spacious
belay ledge/cave.
Pitch 2: 6b 20m From the lefthand side of the ledge climb a diagonal rightwards crack and pull
strenuously around a roof to gain the most incredible hanging corner. Climb around a second roof to
reach the third roof section which is enormous. Follow this via an epic traverse with good gear,
underclings and just enough for your feet. Gain another 5 star belay ledge hanging out above the
nose, and the sea.
Pitch 3: 6b 20m Follow the crack straight up into a final overhanging groove which is passed with
surprising difficulty.
J. McCune, K. Kilroy
The following two routes are approached by a diagonal abseil down a corner /gully with a big chock
stone. With a deviation about half way gain a non tidal big square ledge.
Srón Tochasach (The Itchy Nose) E5 6a/b 70m ***
Pitch 1: 6a 35m Climb a rightwards diagonal crack from the lefthand edge of the ledge. When
possible follow some cracks and grooves straight up to small niche under the righthand side of the
massive roof. Now traverse up and leftwards on small egdes. Place a few cams under the roof and
gain an arete on the left. Pull round the arete via an exhilarating move to gain a wonderful belay
ledge/cave. (Careful route finding and rope management required.)
Pitch 2: 5b 10m From the belay traverse rightwards onto the hanging slab using small holds and
underclings in the roof. Step down to gain the arete of the incredible hanging nose feature. Belay “au
cheval” a leg either side.
Pitch 3: 6a/b 25m Now follow the steep splitter crack with increasing difficulty until possible to move
back left to some good ledges and a rest. Now soak up the exposure, atmosphere and life in general
before attacking the strenuous overhanging exit grove.
J.McCune, K.Kilroy
The Donkeys Pelvis HVS 5a 60m ***
Follows the line of the abseil. Climb a fine crack to a niche and rightwards trending ramp. After about
4 meters climbing up the ramp climb up the wall via grooves and flutings. Trend rightwards, then up a
groove to gain a big ledge. Possible Belay. Climb a crack above the ledge which leads to the exit
groove, blocked by the huge chockstone. Pass on the right with care.
J.McCune, K.Kilroy
The Donkey Jumped over the Moon E2 5c 18m ***
An exhilarating variation top pitch to the previous route. From the right hand side of the belay ledge
climb a crack with difficulty into a groove barred by a roof. Escape rightwards under the stepped roofs
on under clings and small footholds. When things run out make a sensational move to gain a
magnificent hold on the arete and follow the jugs to glory.
J.McCune, K.Kilroy
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
An Sron walls from the sea
Abseil down to a good ledge at the base of the following cracks to the left of the main overhangs of
the An Sron wall.
Pongo E1 5b
Climb the corner into a crack passing a few bulges.
J. McCune, K. Maxwell
Coco Corner HVS 5b
Climb the crack right of the corner passing a few bulges and a strange move.
K. Kilroy, J. Colandairaj
Unnamed VS 4c
Climb the diagonal ramp and corner, until a crack on the left wall. follow this up to a ledge and belay
behind an enormous block. Follow the slab and ramp rightwards to finish?
S. Black, C. Strawson, R. Temple
Shanes Route E2 5c 25m
Abseil to a good ledge down and left. Climb the rightwards flake and groove passing a birdbeak roof.
Immaculate granite.
J. McCune, K. Kilroy
Collossus Wall
From the centre of the wee village, follow the track along the stream NNE until you arrive at the loch
at Grid Ref B711235. Continue to the coast until you are facing the off shore island/stack, descend to
sea level to the west down the huge descending slabs. Once at sea level coastaleer your way East
until facing the landward face of the stack. The following 4 routes climb the aretes above this
outstanding wee seaside resort.
Touching the Void VD 23m *
Climb the right trending ramp line at the base of "Black Arete," follow the ramp around the corner for
a tad of exposure. :-)
I. Miller, W. Schuessler 29/03/11
Black Arete VS 4c 20m
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
Climb the black Arete with sparse gear to begin and excellent perplexing moves in the middle.
I. Miller, W. Schuessler 29/03/11
Back to Trier VS 4b 20m
Climb the sharp arete to the left of "Black Arete" on excellent positive holds and just enough gear.
W. Schuessler, I. Miller 29/03/11
Collossus VD 3c 25m **
At the far left end of the crag climb the soaring tower/arete on immaculate rock/jugs and steepness.
I. Miller, W. Schuessler 29/03/11
The Black Spink
The following routes are found in the steep black zawn at Grid Reference B706235. The first route
breaches the steep west facing wall
An Coinín Beasley E3 5c 30m **
This striking line takes on the rightward trending crack system that splits the steep west facing wall,
approximately 30m left of the sea cave mouth. Abseil in (fixing the rope as you descend) to a
comfortable sloping ledge, just above the high water mark. Start up the short right facing corner and
continue on jugs, jams and cams to a slightly damp finale.
R. Browner, J. Gillmor 01/08/15
The following routes are found on the opposite side of the zawn on the much more amicably angled
east facing wall.
Eadi fotaigineach (Photogenic clothing) E1 5b 30m **
Abseil off boulder with large in cut Ring formation to ledge below water line start left of ledge under
small corner and roof just left of The Ring , Follow corner until moving right under roof to arete follow
this up on good holds towards left hand side of small overlap to top
K. McCoey, R. Smith, P. Swail 17/06/14
The Ring HVS 5a 30m **
Climb up the left facing corner to small overlap. Pull through this and continue up the lovely crack
system to the top.
R. Smith, K. McCoey, P. Swail 17/06/14
Bikini Bottom S 18m
Belay from the depths of the off width crack. Climb the off width for 5 metres and then make an
awkward move left and follow line to the top.
J. Mallon, Princess Kathy Aug 2015
Kobatron’s Wobbly Tooth S 17m
As for bikini bottom, follow the fault line to the top.
Princess Kathy, J. Mallon Aug 2015
Wild Atlantic Wall
At the far western tip of Owey Island lives the Wild Atlantic Wall, this 30 metre high wall of
immaculate granite provides sea cliff climbing of the highest quality. Follow the directions as for
Collossus Wall and at the lake walk west up and over the slight rise to the far western tip of Owey. 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
Grid Ref B705235 This route avoids almost all the deep wet bog and bramble bashing the more direct
routes will take you through. Abseil access to all the routes
Journey into the Unknown E5 6b,5a 33m **
Abseil in 15m East of the top groove/ chimney of Wild Atlantic Way. Abseil over a series of overlaps
until a ledge is reached – from here re-belay and make a diagonal abseil (left when looking in) to the
starting ledge. The abseil is very committing and requires some gear to be put in just to stay in
contact with the cliff.
Pitch 1 (6b) 15m - From the ledge climb the steep wall horizontally right for 6m until below a corner.
Make strenuous and bold moves up to below the corner where a rest is had. From here arrange
protection and fire up the corner (crux) to reach the belay.
Pitch 2 (5a) 18m – Follow the crack above that runs diagonally to the left to reach a large ledge.
Climb the short steep corner to the top.
P. Swail, R. Smith 16/06/14
Wild Atlantic Way E6 6b,5c 45m ***
Abseil in 4m North of the finishing groove of Wild Atlantic Way down to a ledge 5m above the high
tide line (visible from the top of Darcy’s mist). You must keep you swing so you can reach the ledge (if
not you will be stuck in space). The route starts of the left side of the ledge.
Pitch 1 (6b) 20m – From the left edge of the ledge make some easy moves up to reach a layback
crack. Climb this strenuously until it ends just below a small roof. Bridge wildly up the holdless groove
to get established in the overhanging chimney above to a well deserved rest. Climb the delightful
chimney and take a belay at the top of it.
Pitch 2 (5c) 25m – Climb horizontally right from the belay and under a massive flake for 8m. Continue
more direct up a left facing corner. Jam up the corner with difficulty until the top groove is reached.
Watch for rope drag!
P. Swail, K. McCoey 17/06/14
Ceochan Darcy ( Darcy's Mist ) E3 5c 28m ***
This takes the NE facing corner 10m East of the Wild Atlantic Way Buttress. Approach is by abseil
down to the tidal ledge.
Belay on large ledge below overhanging corner, follow corner through series of ledges with good
gear and surprising steepness. At the last ledge move right and make moves on thin gear up face and
handrail to top. Bold and deceivingly steep!
K. McCoey, P. Swail 17/06/14
The Dark Dwellers E3 5c 20m ***
Abseil into the dark chimney 10m West of Darcy’s Mist. It climbs the black wall via left facing crack.
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start at the base of crack (often wet) east at first until the crack peters and the corner feature heads
out right at 13m. From here make a big span left to a good rounded hold. Climb boldly and delicately
straight up the wall to finish.
P. Swail, K. McCoey, R. Smith 16/06/14
Hooters VS 4c 25m ***
Fun climbing on the steep juggy wall across the zawn from The Dark Dwellers.
From the cleft of The Dark Dwellers abseil down the nose on the North-East tip down to a good
square cut ledge. The next 2 routes start from this ledge.
Pride of Kincasslagh E2 5c 25m ***
Climb the rightwards flake and groove passing a birdbeak roof. Immaculate granite.
J. McCune, K. Kilroy
Nothing to Fear E4 6a 35m ***
From the right hand side of the ledge follow the thin crack to the middle of the slab. Climb boldly but
easily up to a scoop in the slab below a set of parallel cracks. Make a long reach up and climb along
the cracks (hands in one and feet on the other) rightwards until the wall steepens below an arête.
Finish directly up the arête in a wild and very satisfying position.
P. Swail, P. Nolan 29/06/14
The next 4 routes start from a non-tidal ledge just around the corner from the top arête of Nothing to
Fear.
Ronnie’s Corner E2 5b 18m **
Climb the corner, bold to start up then steady to the top.
R. Smith, P. Swail 16/06/14
A Farewell to Arms E6 6a/b 20m **
A steep well protected test piece – worth getting warmed up for this one!
Start as for Ronnie’s corner. At the base of the corner proper climb the steep wall with a vague corner
system passing a crus at 2/3 height!
P. Swail, P. Nolan 29/06/14
Lost my Cent E2 5b 20m **
Start as for Darcy’s Corner. Climb up for 5m until the corner steepens. Climb the corner/flake on the
left wall and make some strenuous moves to get established on some positive breaks. Arrange gear
and blast up and slightly left to finish at the top of ………..
P. Swail, R. Smith 16/06/14
Darcy’s Corner VS 5a 22m *
Climb the corner 5m right of Ronnie’s Corner passing a hard move at the top.
P. Swail, R. Smith 16/06/14
The Crows Nest
This south east facing crag lives between Wild Atlantic Wall and The Flutted Zawn, the top is walked
across between these two crags. Access is by scrambling down a rock gully with some easy down
climbing to a tidal ledge.
From the top of the panpipes area / the west face of the Flutted zawn (looking at Holy Jaysus wall
with the Ocean behind you), turn right and walk and scramble down an obvious gully (heading south)
down towards the sea, veering rightwards as you reach obvious wide ledges till a short down climb /
chimney brings you to a large, mostly non-tidal, ledge that flows into the sea. The main wall is to your
right and more overhanging than it first appears.
A Race Against Time (E4 6a/6b) 22m ***
A fabulous route that has a bit of everything – jams, crimps, kneebars & very physical - with the crux
near the top. The obvious right to left crack is more overhanging than it first appears and is
guaranteed to get the arms ‘pumping’. Start at the obvious thin corner and crack and climb to a ledge 
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
at the bottom of the main crack as it heads leftwards. Climb quickly and confidently as the crack
steepens and your arms begin to wither with the climbing becoming more difficult as you head for the
top. Large cams (BD 4 & 5) advisable but not 100% necessary.
S. Brocklehurst, B. McAlinden June 2015 (tried O/S)
Darcy the Salty Sea Dog VS 4c 10m *
From the base of the descent gully and before down climbing the chimney to main part of the Crows
Next an obvious crack line provides interesting climbing.
S. Brocklehurst, B. McAlinden June 2015
Flutted Zawn
Follow the directions for Wild Atlantic Wall and once on the cliff tops head south to the twin south
facing zawns, the Flutted Zawn is the one nearest America. Grid Reference B706234
Lumpy space E4 6a 25m ***
Silly climbing up and across a series of dubious but juggy flakes gains a span to gain the hanging
groove. Continue up the groove with sustained interest and bursting forearms to a slabbier finish.
J. Mccune, K. Kilroy
Supermarket Sweep E2 5c 30m **
Abseil to a spacious black oblong ledge below two main cracks.
Starting from the right side of the ledge climb up and left for several metres until below an obvious
steep bulge. Climb through this (crux) using side pulls to gain the crack above with the angle easing.
C. Hiller, D. Chatteris 28/06/14
The following two routes climb the same feature starting at different heights above sea level.
Promethius VS 4c 27m **
This climbs a crack on the east face of the Flutted Zawn opposite the “flutted features” on the west
face. Abseil in to base of corner crack (about 7m above sea) and set up a belay in crack above a
small roof feature. Climb the layback crack steeply to start with great featured rock towards top. Crux
at start.
D. Millar, K. McGee, P. Tinney
An rud a luionn in iochtar (What Lies Beneath) E3/4 6a 30m ***
Has been done before but previous ascents started much higher up the crack.
Belay on far right of large ledge shared by Lumpy space, Start just right of belay on good flake ( good
gear ) start traverse with delicate moves right to gain a large hold under crack , get high feet and
make strenuous moves through face and crack to good holds on left horizontal break follow crack with
easing difficulty to top
K. McCoey, P. Nolan 16/06/14
Comallyee Ridge V.Diff 4a 40m
The obvious juggy line of weakness running right to left up the wall on the seaward side of
Prometheus. Abseil diagonally from a square inset 5m beyond the top of Prometheus, down to sea
level. Start on the seaward side of the ridge, and scramble up to a short layback crack. More
straightforward scrambling left leads to an awkward thrutch of a corner and on to the top.
A. Tees, M. McGuigan, G. Thomas, V. Schafer 08/09/14
Blue Moon VS 4c 30m
This climbs the featured cracked wall right of the Promethius crack. Abseil in to a large sloping ledge
about 8m above sea. Climb crack at top of ledge steeply for 3-4m to where the angle eases off.
Continue diagonally leftwards using cracks to base of a large detached flake. Step left onto face and
climb vertical crack 1 metre left of detached flake. Climb this for 5m to ledge. Continue diagonally
leftwards to corner crack at top of Prometius. Climb this crack to top.
D. Millar, I. Krella July 2012
The following three routes are found on the West face of the Flutted Zawn.
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
Panpipes HS 4b 30m
Abseil in to large platform at base of flutted buttress. Step right off platform onto arete on Flutted
Buttress (about 3m above sea). Climb arete to large flake feature about 4m above platform. Continue
up arete using horizontal breaks finishing rightwards towards top.
D. Millar, I. Krella June 2012
Girls with Fishes HS 4b 30m
This climbs large chimney feature left of the Panpipes arete in first half and easier ground in second
half towards top. Abseil to large platform on west of Flutted Zawn. Climb chimney using crack on right
wall for 10m to where angle eases off. Continue up easier angled rock towards top.
D. Millar, I. Krella June 2012
Mauritz with Pollacks VS 4c 20m
This route starts from the ledge left of Girls with Fishes in the middle of the wall. Go straight up
following the easiest ground. It gets steeper near the top.
I. Krella, G. Thomas 06/09/12
Twin Atlantic VS 4c 18m *
From the same belay as Mauritz with Pollacks, climb up a series of easy flakes to follow a twin crack
line that goes right to left. Enjoyable but short crack climbing gets you to the top.
S. Brocklehurst, B. McAlinden June 2015
Leana Rann na Bhfaoileann Wall
The following routes are found in the landward zawn inland of the Flutted Zawn. Access by abseil or
scramble down the easier angled rock and slope towards the Holy Jaysus Wall.

Mackrile HS 4b 25m
Abseil down the Darcy slab to access. Enter the fissure separating the slab of 'Darcy' from the main
cliff. Bridge up, and scale a bit of unprotected rock on good holds, leftwards to a ledge and continuing
up to the base of twin cracks at the top of the gully. Climb the cracks (crux) and continue up past a
spectacular flake to the top.
A. Tees, V. Schafer, M. McGuigan 07/09/14
Darcy VS 4b 40m
This route takes the narrow south facing slab, probably the most notable feature thereabouts, but not
very visable from most positions on the clifftop. Start easily on the right, using whatever protection is
available, as it becomes sparse higher up. Move thinly towards the middle and climb a poorly
protected groove to easier ground, and finish up on spectacular jugs to the top. Lovely route on
perfect granite.
A. Tees, V. Schaffer 21/06/14
Traonach HS 4b 30m **
Start awkwardly mid way between Darcy and Kite Runner to gain slanting ledge and short wet
corner. Climb corner and cracked slab on the left to a ledge. Climb directly to a higher ledge, and up
steep crack on jugs to the top.
I. Krella, M. Bonar, 22/06/14
Kite Runner S 4a 30m
About 15m South of the base of Darcy, there is an obvious chimney system, which gives delightful
climbing on sound granite at about V. Diff. Towards the top, choose the steep stepped cracks on the
left, which improve the quality from good to excellent, and the grade to severe!
B. MaGowan, A. Tees 22/06/14
One and a Half Seagulls S 4a 30m
This takes the deep crack between Kite Runner and Two Sea Gulls.
M. Bonar, I. Krella, 22/06/14
Two Seagulls S 4a 30m
Start as for Kite Runner, and ascend right to the edge. Step around the corner and climb a flake to a 
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
ledge, and a higher step to the top.
A. Tees, V. Schafer 21/06/14
Holy Jaysus Wall
This outstanding 60 meter high wall of gently overhanging granite is the showpiece of Owey Islands
climbing and currently plays host to two of Donegal’s hardest routes. Grid Ref B707233
The Second Coming E7 6b 60m ***
Pitch 1: 25m 6b Starting on the same ledge as for Imaculata. After a short traverse onto the face
head up an obvious crack near the left edge.
Pitch 2: 35m 6b Climb the cracks on the face near the left edge. Very sustained with further hard
moves in the top third.
J. McCune, P. Swail 29/06/14
Imaculata E7 6b 60m ***
Starting from the obvious ledge near the base of the arête follow the hand traverse out on to the wall.
Hard moves on crimps lead up a darker band of rock to the second break and belay. The next pitch
climbs effectively straight up the center of the stunning overhanging wall to its highest point, utilising
twin parallel cracks near the top.
J. McCune, R. Brown 23/06/14
Holy Jaysus Wall
20
www.uniqueascent.ie
To the south of Holy Jaysus Wall,
American Spirit E2 5b 20m
A nice little route on the smaller cliffs south of the Holly Jaysus wall. Start up a large corner. At the
ledge at half height, step left and jam up the crack to a final squirm at the top.
R. Brown, J. McCune 23/06/14
South End of Owey Island
From the pier follow the road west through the village and continue west up and over the distant hill.
From the summit of the hill descend to the cliff tops aiming to the left of the large bay below you.
The following routes are found on the short sea cliffs along this section of coast line facing out to the
collection of sea stacks. There is a lot of solid granite, but much of it is loose so an inspection abseil is
advisable. It is coated with a brittle sugary layer entirely unsuitable for smearing.
Map ref: B709228
SW of Torglas is a bay flanked on its SW side by a couple of impressive caves (one with a slim
freestanding pillar) and a stack connected by a narrow arete. Towards the north of this bay, abseil to
a large non tidal platform.
Owey Yin Kenobi S 4a 15m
This routes takes the platform corner (with an offwidth crack in it). Technical to start, leans back
higher up, but with a short loose arete at the top.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 20/06/09
Four Ewoks in a Pie D 15m
This takes the easy ramp running up rightwards from the left hand edge of the non tidal ledge of
Owey Yin Kenobi.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 20/06/09
Hugh Francis HS 4b 15m **
From the start of "Four Ewoks" step left and climb up through a break in the overhangs on good jugs.
Avoid the furry ramp on the right, and continue up the wall/corner to the top.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 20/06/09
The following routes are in the bay to the north looking out to the stack with a window in it.
Pete's Prowess VS 4c 15m
This takes the obvious leftward trending crack/overlap between Torglass & Fandango etc and the
wall containing "Assbiter.”
P. McConnell, G. Carlton June 07
Crazy Paving VS 4b 20m
Just left of "Petes Prowess" climb easily up broken slabs into a corner. Climb the wall to the left of the
corner to the top.
G. Carlton, P. McConnell June 07
Ass Biter S 25m
Just to the north of Torglass on a south facing wall there are a series of leftward leaning cracks.
Abseil down the large blank section on the right of the wall to gain the start. Use the blocky steps on
the face to follow an edge line towards a small overhang, exiting right of the overhang onto a loose
exit.
A. Feeney, M. Hassan 23/06/07
21
www.uniqueascent.ie
Ginger Biscuit D 8m
On the north wall on the other side of the bay from Ass Biter a zig zag stepped line can be seen in
the alcove in the centre of the wall. A very easy ascent on grippy jugs.
A. Feeney, M. Hassan 23/06/07
King of the Swingers HS 4a 10m
On the face immediately round the corner right of Ginger Biscuit start as low as possible on a rocky
rung. Using the horizontal cracks and edges climb to the highest point directly above, avoiding the
blocky ledges to the left and right that threaten to turn this route into a Severe or less.
A. Feeney, M. Hassan 23/06/07
Torglass Island
Living off the south West tip of Owey Island is the large grass topped Torglass Island. The South face
of Torglass Island is made up of clean granite slabs. Grid Ref B707224
Torglass Island
Cordite Cracks HS 4a 20m
A couple of metres east of the big corner taken by ‘Gun Runner’ there is a crack in the slab which
disappears at about 5 metres, to be replaces by a thin one. After a couple of thin unprotected moves,
the climbing is easier to reach, and overcome, a short steep layback crack at the top.
A. Tees, V. Schaffer, B. Magowan, 11/08/12
Gun Runner S 4a 20m
Layback delightfully up the big corner to about two thirds height, where there is a thin crack on the
left (just above the feature after which the route is named) giving access to the slab above. There is a
temptation to continue up the corner above, but the exit is sugary and unpleasant. Traverse left
across the slab under the overhanging step, and climb a short corner to the top. An option would be to
go straight up the slab over a couple of furry unprotected mantles!
A. Tees, V. Schafer, B. Magowan, 11/08/12
Blunderbuss HS 4b 20m
Beyond ‘Gun Runner’ there is a chimney which provides an obstacle to traversing along the bottom
of the slab. Easier to ab down beyond this, to a big platform. This route takes prominent twin grooves,
which steepen and bear left towards the top. At the top the rock becomes sugary in the corner, so
make a thin step left to the arête, treating the flake with caution.
A. Tees, V. Schafer, B. Magowan, 11/08/12
22
www.uniqueascent.ie
Flesh Wound VD 20m *
Approx 10m left of ‘Blunderbuss’ is a trough, with a deep right to left groove leading into a steep
corner, above it. Start just left of the trough, gain the groove and continue up the overlapping corner
on great holds and protection.
B. Magowan, V. Schaffer, A. Tees 11/08/12
Three Muskateers S 4a 20m *
Beyond ‘Flesh Wound’ is a stepped layback off width, and beyond this a lovely arête sweeps down to
the sea. This route starts on the right of the arête, and gains it higher up, on perfect rock, with a slight
sting in the tail on the last move!
A. Tees, B. Magowan, V. Schafer, 11/08/12
On the west face of Torglass Island.
Russian Roulette HS 4b 25m
This route climbs the ramp on an unusual combination of crumbly holds and quite good protection.
Thoughtful and skilful climbing may result in the survival of your belayer, especially if he forgets his
helmet. An experience not to be missed.
A. Tees, B. Magowan, 11/08/12
Forked Lightening E1 5b 20m **
Climbs the strikingly obvious forked lightening crack on the North side of Torglass Island. Climb the
crack via chimney to start onto ledge then continue up crack as it zig-zags its way up the face, with
crux at top. Big gear handy.
D. Millar, M. Boner
Rachael’s Run S 4b 16m
Starting 20 metres right of forked lightening, climb up onto the block ledges on increased difficulty.
Awkward move onto final ledge and then climb the corner to the top.
J. Mallon, Princess Kathy Aug 2015
Finbarr Stack, Torglass Island & Lady of Owey from Fracture Stack
This is the stack between The Lady of Owey and mainland Owey, and is found just to the north of
Torglass Island.
23
www.uniqueascent.ie
Finbar’s Stack Diff 25m *
Climb up the centre of the wall by a series of big stepped ledges on the seaward side. Nice little airy
crux at the very top.
F. Mullen 22/06/09
Finbarr Stack Film
Staca Bhui HVS 5B 16m **
Climbs the stunning narrow needle stack North of Torglass Island known as the Lady of Owey. Belay
on large sloping ledge at base of crack and groove on the stacks north wall. Climb the stack on its
North face via the crack at first then the groove to the summit.
D. Millar, M. Boner
Fracture Stack V.Diff 30m
This is the big flat topped stack NW of Torglas Island with a detached leaning pillar, which can look
like a square window when looking from mainland Owey. Land in the cave/arch facing The Lady of
Owey. A difficult move right, around a corner, leads to delightfully easy climbing on good granite to
the summit ridge.
A. Tees, I. Kyrella, B. Magowan 22/06/09
Nautical Folly SVR 4a 30m *
At the seaward end of the East facing wall of Fracture Stack (facing the Lady of Owey) there sits a
large tidal platform. Climb the prominent right facing corner in the centre of the seaward wall directly
above the ledge. Superb rock and holds all the way to summit.
I. Miller, C. Gleeson, M. Boner 27/06/09
By Hook or by Crook E1 5B 20m **
This route climbs the West face of the leaning tower on "Fracture Stack." Scramble/cave your way to
the seaward face of the tower (between the tower and the parent stack) to the massive seaward
platforms. At the seaward end of the west face of the tower climb the series of ledges to the left of the
obvious roof crack. Micro wires needed. DO NOT attempt to land on the seaward face of this stack as 
24
www.uniqueascent.ie
the funnelling effect of the sea between "Fracture Stack" and "Neptunes Lair Stack" is UBER dramatic
I. Miller S. Read 26/06/10
Neptune’s Lair Stack
Grid Ref B707226. This dramatic little stack sits to the North West of Fracture stack and is guarded by
a modicum of Neptunes Wrath. The South East face is an excellent wall of immaculate wave battered
cracks and features
White Rage S 20m *
This route climbs the most obvious deep crack in the left of centre of the wall.
I. Miller S. Read 26/06/10
Cavers Delight HS 4B 20m *
On the land ward face of this excellent little stack climb the groove / face immediately to the left of the
monster chimney/gash at the right hand end of the face.
S. Read, I. Miller 26/06/10
Scealpan Bui
Following the coast line North for 300 meters takes you to a large very scenic bay with a dragon
shaped sea stack in the centre of it. Descend to the storm beach by scrambling down the loose slope
at the back of the bay. Grid Ref B709228
Super Sunday VD 50m
On the north facing wall at the southern end of the bay sea level traverse south from the base of
Dragon stack passing the "WO CC" & "JC" carvings. After the "JC" climb the series of corners & steps
trending slighly left to the base of a right facing corner. Climb the corner by the stepped crack
(exposed) to the summit.
S. Read, I. Miller 27/06/10
Towers of Pizza VD 40m
Probably the most obvious feature is a series of stepped towers connected to the clifftop by a short
arete. This is well down towards the sea. Climb the first step by a wide corner crack on the right, and
continue up taking care not to drop too many boulders on the second. Will be excellent at its grade,
when the loose rock is cleared.
P. Smith, A. Tees 19/9/99
Dragons Breath HS 50m
On the sea-facing wall, opposite stack, approx midway between 'Towers of Pizza' and 'Ferryman
Ridge', access is by sea-level traverse. Start from a small platform and climb parallel fluted cracks.
Airy moves bring you up on a long, grassy ascent to the foot of another small wall. This is climbed
boldy on a leftward trending crack to reach an arete, and left to the top.
P. Smith, B. Magowan 19/9/99
Ferryman Ridge VD 40m
Traversing right, at sea level, past the sea stack, there is a prominent pillar just where you turn into
the next bay ( the Ferryman). This exploratory route gains the col behind the Ferryman by climbing
sound rock on its far side. Continue up left, taking care, and make an awkward exit through a keyhole.
A. Tees, M. Pailing 19/09/99
Light in the Western Sky VS 4b 50m
Start left of and below obvious overhang capped corner at the bottom left of the main seamed wall at
the western landward side of the Zawn. Scramble up left of the capped corner, climb crack just
behind, to gain slab above, move up right and climb fluted cracks (crux) to ledge and continue up 
25
www.uniqueascent.ie
obvious corner and wall to top.
M. McGuigan, A. Tees 23/09/00
Comedy of Errors HVS 5a 30m
This takes the obvious line of corner/grooves about 10m right of 'Light in the Western Sky'. An abseil
Descent is preferable as access to the bottom is dangerous. Layback up two large flakes and
continue up Groove (substained) to small ledge. Climb at left two corners to door exit.
M. McGuigan, A. Tees 24/09/00
The following two routes are found on the landward face of the dragon shaped sea stack.
Taming The Dragon V.Diff 40m
Grid Reference B707228
This route climbs the landward arête up the prominent sea stack in the bay. Cross from the sea
facing mainland wall and climb the right hand side of the sea arch to belay at a block on the top.
Continue over the arch and climb the ramp on mixed rock and some vegetation to belay. Traverse the
pinnacle ridge to highest block at the far end. Beware of the sizable collection of poised blocks on the
summit ridge.
A. Tees, B. Magowan 24/09/00
Baby Jasmine’s Dragon S 4a 26m
On the wall below the sea arch, start climbing up onto good ledges then follow line of dark crack on
good holds then climb ramp on mixed rock and vegetation to large blocks belay and abseil point.
I. Gault. J. Mallon, R. Mulraney, S. Garcia 12/07/13
Archangel S 4a 55m
This takes a curving line up the huge slab on the south facing wall at the North side of Dragon Bay.
Abseil down from a rusty post in situ stake to a ledge at the centre of the slab comfortably above high
water line. Climb up rightwards for about 30m, reaching the right edge, and avoiding the prominent
overhangs. An exposed step left leads into a corner, which is followed to the top. A really spectacular
line for the grade, but the rock should be treated with some respect.
A. Tees, G. Thomas 25/08/08