1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
Skelpoonagh Bay
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Skelpoonagh Bay
Directions: This area comprises of a series of zawns situated on the inconspicuous grassy headland
between Glencolumbkille village and Glen Head. These zawns offer varied and excellent climbing
each with its own character, and the routes tend to have a more serious feel than those at Malin Beg.
Abseil stakes are in place where necessary. For the climber not yet moved into the extreme grade,
these zawns will provide exciting and adventurous routes with a good selection up to HVS There is a
lot of rock here for new routes. There is an independent youth hostel and campsite on the hill above
the Folk Village, and a cafe in the village serves great pots of tea and lots of sticky buns during the
tourist season. The descriptions of the Zawns and routes start at the Glen Head end.
Map ref: G516857
Zawn 1
The routes to the left are on a black wall above the sea at the front of the zawn. The most prominent
feature is a large right facing curving corner which stops at half height. The left side of this wall is
defined by a long right-lacing corner with a quartz arête. Routes are reached by abseil from in situ
stakes.
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Midges Down Your Diddies VD 20m
J. Walls, E. Walls, P. Nolan Sept 90
From near the back of the zawn, climb ledges diagonally right to the base of the tapering left-facing
corner. Climb a steep but juggy flake crack across the wall on the left to the top.
Pre-Flight Checks S 4a 20m
C. McDaid, I. Miller 10/05/08
As for "Midgies Down Your Diddies" climb the easy ledges and continue up the tapering left facing
corner.
Sky Gamut S 25m
J. Walls, J. Stephenson Sept 90
Sky Gamut Below and 4m to the right of the tapering corner mentioned above, two parallel cracks go
up to meet the obvious broken diagonal ramp. This route takes the less steep left-hand crack. Follow
the crack to broken ledges past a short vague corner/groove. Easier climbing up ledges above to the
top.
Chance Meeting VS 4c 25m
A. Currans, R. Allsop Sept 90
The obvious thin crack 4m right of Sky Gamut and left of the wet streak. Difficulty increases with
height, the crux being reaching the easy ledges near the top.
Protection City HVS 5a 25m
W. Canning,C. Wright Aug 94
Same start as chance meeting for 6m, step right unto sloping ledge with thin diagonal crack (crux)
Surmount this and onto top, trending right.
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Niggera Fall HVS 5a 30m
W. Canning, R.J.Starrs Aug 94
Starts 1/2M right of wet streak ( to the right of Chance Meeting) Climb straight up on fine moves to a
small corner. Mantleshelf easily to Bulging Wall (Hard Move) right to finish.
Mujahadeen E2 5c 35m
R. Allsop, A. Currans, P. Nolan Sept 90
Below the lower part of Kuwaiti is a ledge at 3m. Two parallel thin cracks run up to the side of the
ledge, gain the ledge using the right hand crack, and step right to the thin flake crack; use this to
reach the deep flake crack of Kuwaiti. Follow this leftwards to where it starts to become horizontal,
near the top, below some bulging rock. Climb directly up bulging rock using a feint crack to reach a
good finger slot (crux). Better holds will transport you to the top.
Déjà vu/New Beginnings VS 4c 35m *
J. Walls, P. Nolan Sept 90 A. Currans, R. Allsop Sept 09
This route takes the obvious right- trending crack that cuts through the omnipresent Kuwaiti. Gain the
ledge at 3m as for Mujahadeen and follow this route as far as the thin flake crack. Climb this crack
with increasing steepness but good holds. Finish directly to the top up the left side of the block.
Excellent climbing.
Kuwaiti Sheikhi Flakey HS 4b 40m **
J. O Dolan, C. O Dolan Sept 90
This route follows the by-now-famous right to left diagonal flake crack, starting under the overhanging
prow and following it in a fine protection to where it ends near the wet streak. Every hold a jug A very
good route.
Crunchie Bar Climb HS 35m *
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
J. Walls, R. Allsop Sept 90
Below the overhanging prow is a large sloping ledge with large blocks on it. Gain the left-hand side by
a series of thin flakes. Go up rightwards to the top the ledge and traverse diagonally left directly
beneath the prow to reach the top.
The following routes are on the opposite side of the zawn.
Stella Artois HVS 4c 16m
Z. Wang, G. Greene, 02/04/10
This route is on the wall to the left (looking from the sea towards the crag) of the usual climbs of Zawn
1. It can be easily spotted by looking down and across from the top of Protection City. Scramble up
some blocks until you reach the base of a small triangular cave/niche. Climb up the crack and bridge
up through the niche until it is possible to escape out left onto good, but overhanging face holds.
Block belay off a large boulder.
Murden in Eden HVS 5a 12m
W. Canning, J. Starrs
The following routes are on the opposite side of the zawn. On the first bulging section of rock on the
right after decending the gully is a deep crack at about half height with a fine quartz vein on the right.
Gain the crack with strenuous moves and up left to the top.
The Bog Men E1 5b 12m
W. Canning 20/07/91
3m left of murder in Eden, around the corner, Surmount overhang to gain right facing chimney.
Awkward moves right and up to the top.
Half Brick S 15m
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
M. Mc Guigan, W. Canning Aug 93
10m left of the Bog Men, climb slabby rock to right facing corner. Climb corner to top.
Two Half Bricks S 15m
J. Starrs, R. Cunningham Aug 93
3m left of Half Brick up slabby area to shallow corner which is climbed to the top.
Two Plates HS 4b 15m
C. McDaid, I. Miller 10/05/08
10mters left of "Two Half Bricks" and starting at the base of the smooth walled groove, Climb the right
trending crack line to the hollow sounding block and continue to the top up the left trending crack.
Further down towards the sea where the crag rises in height, in the upper half of the crag there is a
very obvious left facing corner.
Druids VS 5a 35m
I. Miller, C. McDaid 10/05/08
Further down towards the sea where the crag rises in height, in the upper half of the crag there is a
very obvious left facing corner. This route starts directly below this corner.
Pitch 1, 4B 25mtr, Climb the right trending crack line to the bottom of the smooth granite rock band
and pad up to the top of the slabby granite.
Pitch 2, 5a 10mtr, Climb the steep left facing corner.
As an easier alternative 2nd pitch climb the cracked groove 8 mtrs to the left of the corner @ 4a and
an overall grade of HS.
Zawn 2
Climbing here is in marked contrast to the last routes with the climbs around the huge cave giving
tremendous exposure and great climbing. The first routes are on the face to the left of the cave.
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
Nomads VD 25m
P. Nolan Sept 90
On the face to the left of the cave. Nomads Follow the quartz ribbon directly up the left arete, going
left at the overhang.
Daydream VD 25m **
J. Stephenson, A. Curran Sept 90
Follow the left arete to the overhang and then move right to the obvious wide crack, which is followed
to the top.
Paradies in the Picture-house VS 4c 30m **
J. Stephenson, A. Curran Aug 90
A diagonal line up the face left of the cave giving mainly easy but exposed climbing. Most difficult at
the start and finish. Gain the bottom of the left arete and foot-traverse right along the obvious
horizontal break. Make a tricky move up the thin crack to the large sloping ledge. From the ledge
traverse right along horizontal breaks until a crack leads up to the quartz arete. Up the left side of the
quartz to the overhanging nose and jam round this in a spectacular position. A phantasmagoric route.
Fruit Palace HVS 4c 40m ***
A. Currans, P. Noland Sept 90
A truly wild rock trip giving the most mind-blowing position for a route of its grade to be found
anywhere in the country.
1) Follow Paradise to the horizontal breaks, but instead of climbing up to the quartz, continue
traversing right to the arete. Belay here after changing your underpants. Bring your second up before
changing your mind.
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
2) Make a short traverse across the overhanging wall to gain the base of the hanging corner above
the left side of the face. Climb the corner with continued interest, taking time to savour your
surroundings. Probably the finest route that side of Killybegs.
Atlantic Bound E2 5a 40m *
W. Canning, A.N. Other
Same first pitch as the Fruit Palace, leave the security of the corner belay and traverse right into a
niche, a delicate move around the quartz leads to a faint crack and straight to the top.
The next four routes are on the other side of the zawn and are approached by an easy sea level
traverse from the front of the zawn or by a short abseil from the ramp above Pioneers and Alcoholics
Pioneers and Alcoholics VS 4b 30m
P. Nolan, J. Walls (9/90)
This route takes the corner formed by the right side of the cave and the zawn wall. Another
adventurous outing giving reasonable climbing though what looks from below to be not so reasonable
territory. Start on the huge flat topped boulder on the right side of the cave mouth. Climb directly up
from the platform, steeply at first until it is possible to step left onto the diagonal hanging Slab. Move
across left to the end of the slab and then up steeply until progress is barred by overhangs. From here
make a traverse right to easier ground. A short flake crack above leads to the top.
Billy Mc Grew the Sailor S 20m
R Allsop,J Walls (9/90)
This route takes the obvious left to right diagonal in the zawn wall right of the cave, to the left of the
large concave recess. Finish straight up at the end of the crack.
Billy Mcgrew the Sailor (Bawbag Finish) HVS 5a 35m **
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
C. McDaid, I. Miller 10/05/08
Climb Billy Mcgrew till crack peters out, traverse hard right through quartzite band on crimps for 4 mtr
until a couple of moves up gains another left to right trending crack. Follow to top. Mucho exposure
That's the Shot VS 4c 20m
R. Allsop, J. Walls (9/90)
A route through the concave recess of Billy Mc Grew. Climb up the left side of the recess until the
rock starts to overhang. Make a difficult traverse right to a protruding block, where a horizontal crack
leaves the right side of the recess. Make a few moves along this crack until another diagonal crack
leads back left to the main crack that leaves the top of the recess and follow this to the top.
Zawn 3
Zawn 3 sits approx 50m to the south and there is a free standing fin of rock with a number of short
crack lines. The routes described are accessed by abseil down a moderately angled North facing
corner close to the end of the headland separating Zawns 3 and 4.
Marty’s Corner D 20m
M.McGuigan, K.Monaghan 07/05/12
Follows the abseil corner.
Left Winger S 4a 20m
A. Tees, G. Thomas 7/5/12
Half way up the ab corner, branch left, where a few problematic moves lead to an easy angled crack
and belay.
Spreadeagled! HS 4b 20m
K. & S. Monaghan 7/5/12
At bottom of abseil, climb chimney on left little protection and no handholds unto past crux at 6m with
no handholds, smear bridge over 2 steps, on superb rock, unto easier ground, at top finish easily up
ramp on right.
Tribute to the Bears S 4a 20m
S. Kennedy, K. Monaghan 7/5/12
3m right from bottom of abb. Climb slab to underneath large overhang. Climb high under overhand
on sound flake and the stretch back left to gain good foothold on to large rock to gain upper slab.
Finish easily directly to the top.
SeaEagled S 4a 20m
K. & S. Monaghan 7/5/12
Low tide only. Work your way down right from bottom of abb onto large barnacle covered blocks.
Traverse back left 5m to crack with good holds, Climb 5m exiting onto ramp moving up left. From
ramp take 1st corner on right (crux) with undercut holds to top of chimney on Spreadeagled. Quite a
bit of drag so may need to bring second up before finishing as for Spreadeagled.
Zawn 4
After a longer walk (400m) Zawn 4 is attained Here one can choose between pleasant low-grade slab
climbs on the right or more demanding crack and groove lines above the sea on the left. The massive
slab gets any sun that is going, this and its low angle makes it perfect for cold beginners. The bottom
of the routes is reached by a gully at the back of the zawn
Keep Off the Grass HS 30m
S. Read, E. Ross May 2009
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start at the bottom corner of the slab at the right-hand edge of zawn four. Take a diagonal traverses
above the grassy verge to a distinct corner beneath a series of large blocks. Bridge up through the
corner and follow the left hand edge of the blocks to finish.
Letting Go S 50m
I. Rea, M. Rea (4/91)
Start at the left edge of the afore-mentioned huge block at the descent gully and climb up the fault
until you're level with a grassy ledge on the right. Now follow the obvious horizontal fault which runs
across the whole crag to the quart/ intrusion near the seaward edge. Climb up above the quartz
where you'll find a belay on the grass just below the blocky jumble.
Lee Shore HS 40m
I Rea, M. Rea(4/91)
To find this, go to the base of the descent gully where a huge block leans against the crag. 3 metres
left of this is an obvious blocky niche which you climb up by the left-hand side and over a bulge via
the obvious crux. Follow a fault line up left to cross Bran Flakes and go into a vague depression
(sounds fun!). Having got over this depression, you can finish straight up via a feint corner.
Heathen VS 4c 40m
I. Rea, M. Rea (4/91)
Two metres left of Lee Shore, you'll find a blocky overhang 3m above your head. Gain the right hand
side or this using a left-facing flake/edge. Go up the steep little wall and cross Lee Shore and follow
the crack until it is possible to step left to below a quartz intrusion. Finish straight up and left of the
quartz.
Bran Flakes D 30m
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
P. Nolan (9/90)
The obvious left to right diagonal line starting behind the huge triangular pillar flake lying against the
middle of the slab.
First Born D 30m
J. Walls, J. Stephenson (9/90)
A direct line up the thin crack above the flake.
Westering VS 4c 40m
I. Rea, M. Rea (4/91)
Start 2m left of Bran Flakes below the bulging wall, and climb up into the vague scoop. Step up left
and then go straight up to below the largest overhang. Step right, and then immediately up to a
horizontal break. From here move left to another niche and a quartz knob. Go right a few more feet
and then straight up the wall. The start is bold, but the crux is near the top.
Sea Breezes HS 40m
I. Rea, M. Rea (4/91)
Start as for Westering but move out right from the scoop. Continue up the thin cracks from here, past
a break, until you reach First Born Cross over this and follow the right-trending crack to a vertical fault
which is followed to the car park.
Baltic Breeze Sev S 4a 30m
A. Feeney, PJ Monaghan. 7/5/12
Start a couple of metres right of “Heads Together” and follow the obvious fault line leading just left of
the prominent left facing roofs at half height.
Heads Together VD 30m ***
A. McAloon, J. Walls (9/90)
Start a few metres left of the flake. Climb diagonally leftwards beneath small stepped overhangs and
straight up to finish.
Mach 4 HS 4b 30m
A. Tees, G. Thomas. 6/5/12
 From the LH edge of the big flake, traverse out left on quartz veins to the edge of a corner
(Aquaguldering) and climb the vertical band of razor blade rock. This is similar to “Heads Together”
but steeper. After a few moves the difficulties ease, and continue up the rock band to the top.
Aquaguldering S 4a 30m
M. McGuigan, K. Monaghan 6/5/12
 Start at the left (seaward) base of the flake, and climb the corner on good side pulls/ flakes.
Climbfest Corner D 25m
Alan Tees, Valli Schafer 6/5/12
The next big corner seaward, just beyond some overhangs, branching off right beyond the steep bit
to avoid boredom!
Escapapologist D 25m
A. Tees, V. Schafer 6/5/12
Seaward of the slab left of Climbfest Corner, is a chimney to half height. Ab into it, and, if (like us)
you can’t get out again, follow a clean groove rightwards onto the slab, the centre of which is climbed
on grippy rock to the top.
The Mermaid HS 4a 25m
A. Tees, V. Schafer 6/5/12
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
 Beyond the chimney the slabs taper into an arête as they tumble to the surf. Descent is by abseil to
a small ledge (not possible at high tide). Start up on the stepped arête, move right, and gain a big
ledge. From here a pristine diedre leads to an airy ramp, for which you will need small wires, and a
delicate move to gain the pockled upper wall, and belay. Nice!
Alfie’s Corner D 25m
A. Conn, G. Thomas. 6/5/12
Next big corner, and close to the end of the headland.
Smear Test S 4a 20m
A. Feeney, PJ Monaghan. 7/5/12
At the end of the promontory, and just on the Bay 4 side of it, is a chute running down to the sea.
Descend by Abseil, and re-ascend up the right hand diedre on friction and wires mostly!
Upshoot and left up Quartzleghorn S 3c 25m
M. McGuigan, C. Ward 07/05/12
Ab down the chute, and follow the chimney etc just left of ‘Smear Test’. Interesting! Take the quartz
exit, left at the top.
Man Flu HVS 5a 20m
G. Thomas, A. Tees 07/05/12
Ab steeply down off the end of the promontory (slightly on the North side) into a ‘V’ channel. Climb
the deep cracks on the left at the back to an edge, step across, and pull up onto a quartzy ledge.
Descend to the right, above the overhangs, and make a couple of thin moves to gain a deep’ right to
left’ crack in the wall above. Climb this on steep but positive holds.
Sniffle Group S 4a 20m
A. Tees, G. Thomas.7/5/12
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
Start as for ‘Man Flu’ to the quartzy ledge, but traverse left around the corner into Bay 3, to the first
set of jugs, which are climbed pleasantly to the stash of sodden tissues!
The following routes are on the other side of the Zawn 4.
Rockmail HVS 5a 25m *
A. Currans, P. Nolan, A. Mc Aloon Sept 90
This route takes the curving corner in the centre of the wall, obvious from the opposite side of the
zawn. Abseil to a good stance at the bottom of the corner. Climb the superb corner on good holds and
bridging. At its top traverse left across a sloping ledge to the bottom of a leaning groove and climb this
with difficulty. Finish leftwards at the top to avoid loose rock. Good memorable climbing.
Out of the Blue HS 4b 25m
P. Nolan, A. Currans, A. McAloon (9/90)
Three metres right of the main corner on the inland side of the wall. Abseil down to good ledges
below a bottomless v-groove. Bridge up the v-groove crack and follow this to the top.
Cheekbone City HVS 5a 25m
P. Nolan, A. Currans (9/90)
Three metres right of Out Of the Blue, the route follows a long thin crack which starts steeply and
peters out at a right-facing corner where the rock bulges Climb up,and from the left, gain a good
foothold in the steep crack. Make a difficult move up to gain the less steep crack above and follow this
to the short corner. Move up this with increasing difficulty until forced out left onto the rib (avoiding a
loose down -pointing spike above). Move up, then pull round right and up to finish.
Tall Ships VS 4c 20m
W. Canning, J. Starrs, D. Coyle 20/07/09
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
Starts from the boulder field to the left of the above in a dark corner with a Perched Block at 15m.
1: Climb to grassy terrace and belay
2: Continue on the obvious line of weakness to finish on corner to the right.
Let it Be HVS 5a 45m
W. Canning, J. Starrs Aug 99
Pitch one as for Tall Ships, traverse left to Quartz corner and trend right up towards two summit
corners taking the right hand one.
Askart VS 4c 40m
W. Canning, J. Starrs Aug 99
As above only taking the left hand summit corner.
The Three Amigos VS 4b 40m
W. Canning, J. Starrs, D. Coyle Aug 99
Pitch 1 as for Tall Ships. Traverse left into quartz corner, but continue left towards grassy platform at
3\4 height, where sheltered rock and deep V groove leads to exit on left of roof.
Zawn 5
Approx 100m beyond zawn 4 walking towards Glencolmcille the following routes are located at the
sea ward tip of the north facing wall. Although shorter this wall provides the best quality rock in
Skelpoonagh, so far. Access is by easily descending to sea level down the sea ward face of the
peninsula separating zawns 5 and 6.
Skelp Arete HS 4b 15m
I. Miller, D. O'Connor, C. Gleeson 27/05/12
Immediately to the right of the steep open book corner, "Kosua Corner," climb the sharp knife edge
arete.
Kosua Corner HS 4b 15m **
S. Read, I. Miller, C. Gleeson, E. Ross 27/05/12
The steep open book corner.
Sea Bait HS 15m
S. Read, E. Ross, C. Gleeson 27/05/12
Climb the arete to the left of "Kosua Corner," climb to the flake on the right of "Giggling Crack,"
finishing up a thin gearless crack to the left.
Giggling Crack HS 4b 15m
I. Miller, D O'Connor, C. Gleeson 27/05/12
Climb the stepped crack 2m to the right of "Book of Fate" corner. More Details (0 Comments)
Book of Fate S 4a 15m *
D O'Connor, I. Miller, C. Gleeson 27/05/12
Climb the second Open Book Corner in from the sea.
Jungle Sea VS 4c 15m *
S. Read, I. Miller 27/05/12
The arete to the left of "Book of Fate," pull up on 2 good jugs to an easier slab and up the final steep
step to finish. 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie