1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
The Poisoned Glen
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
The Poisoned Glen
Access: The best approach into the Poisoned Glen is from the Dunlewey side, from the R251 at the
base of the south face of Errigal follow the wee side road down to the ruined roofless church. From
head follow the road and path into the glen.
Creag Na Mbreac
Directions: About half way up the North-Eastern (left) side of the glen, and about 40 minutes walk in,
is this steep south facing crag. The crag forms the back wall of a shallow bay, flanked by broken
buttresses The most obvious features are a large forested ledge, just left of centre and about 10m up
from the base, and a deep corner gully to the left. The crag dries quickly, but routes need a clean and
are probably undergraded.
Map ref: B924180
White Walls VD 75m
A poor route up the broken rocks on the left of the gully mentioned above.
P. Gribbon, K. Clauss, D. Sloan, D. Bond April 55
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Bad Blood E1 5b 25m
Start 2m left of “Dubious Maiden” at the base of steep arete. Climb the wall just right of the arete to
ledge, then steeply up arete to grass ledge, then up short hand crack to finish out left via small alcove.
I. Rea, M. Rea, J. Milligan 11/04/93
Dubious Maiden HS 4b 20m *
This route takes the obvious crack line at the bottom of the left-hand wall of the gully just left of
Tarantula. Climb the lower crack easily to gain the heathery ledge. Continue jamming steeply up the
continuation crack to the top.
A. Tees, G. Colhoun 28/09/85
Tarantula S 42m
Start: At the base of the gully mentioned above. The route follows the left of the buttress to the right of
the gully.
1: 17m Scramble up to a short square chimney and climb this to heather ledge
2: 10m Climb the wall above to a small spike, then step left onto the rib. Up to holly bush and belay.
3: 15m Climb crack behind belay to gain a ledge on the left. Continue up the wall and crack above to
the top.
BA Fuller, RB Evans Aug 57
Tio Pepe HS 4b 78m *
Start: At the base of the buttress immediately right of the left-hand gully.
1: 33m At the base of the buttress is a flake. Climb the crack to the left of this, exiting on the left of 
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
the block at the top. Continue easily up to the base of the main wall with orange markings.
2: 9m Move slightly right and up the obvious crack.
3: 36m Ascend the gully above moving right towards the top.
H. Drasdo, E. Healy, F. Winder Aug 55
Fiona VS 57m **
Starting 6m right of Tio Pepe where a steep crack leads up to a little square cut overhang.
1: 30m Climb crack to overhang at 5m. Turn this to the right (crux) and follow cracks to sentry box
below a big block. Bridge up and gain crack on the left which is followed to vegetation and ledge
below corner crack.
2: 27m From here the direct finish climbs the obvious crack on the wall behind and then scrambles
off. The original route climbs the corner crack to another ledge at 6m. From here gain ivy groove on
the right and follow it to another ledge. Step left from this and follow crack to the top.
GJ Sutton, AJ Maxfield 03/04/59
Ectamorph HS 57m
Start as for Fiona
1: 20m Climb corner crack to a steep heather ledge leading right to a good stance with large flake.
2: 22m Descend ledge to top of crack and move left into corner. Up this with increasing difficulty.
Gain narrow chimney on the left and climb this to stance with loose blocks and belay in niche above.
3: 15m Move left from the niche into corner of the buttress and up to good ledge on Tio Pepe. Follow
the easy ground to top.
H. Drasdo, M. Downing April 56
Hammer and Sickle HVS 5a 45m
Start below the highest point of the crag at a right angled corner widening to form a huge flake, with
the forested ledge to the left. Start at the foot of this corner.
1: 24m Climb the corner crack which after a block at 9m widens into a chimney. Continue up to top of
flake and traverse left to grass ledge.
2: 10m Move up vegetation trending left to another ledge. Move right to the huge grass balcony in the
middle of the face. Lal joins the route from the right at this point and shares the final pitch.
3: 20m. From the left end of the balcony, climb vegetated rock to reach clean overhanging rightward
facing corner, which is followed to top. It is possible to avoid this crux pitch by traversing left off the
balcony to join Tio Pepe.
G.J. Sutton, H. Drasdo 20/04/57, C. Torrans FFA of pitch 3 20/04/81
Lal HVS 5b 60m *
This route takes the wall between Hammer and Sickle and Pick and Shovel, following a ramp
trending left to the big grass balcony and finishing up Hammer and Sickle. Start below and to the left
of some large flakes in the middle of the wall.
1: 5b 40m Climb flakes and crack to gain ramp, passing old peg. Continue up with increasing
difficulty until horizontal crack below final bulge is reached. Traverse right, gain ledge on right with
one nut for aid. Continue easily to gain large grass terrace/balcony as for Hammer and Sickle.
2: 4a 20m As for Hammer and Sickle.
C Sheridan, C Torrans 20/04/81
Pick and Shovel HVS 5a 60m **
This route takes the obvious left facing deep corner on the right-hand side of the crag.
1: 5a 39m Climb the corner moving left, then right with difficulty. Continue up and left passing a small
tree to reach a small ledge and corner. Climb corner to overhang and move left under this on good
holds to belay on the ledge above.
2: 5a 21 m Climb the short corner behind the belay, passing a large detached flake on the left. Belay 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
well back.
C Torrans, C Sheridan 17/06/78
Valerian HVS 5a 50m *
Starting to the right of Pick and Shovel.
1: 5a 30m Climb up and right below overhang, pulling out of corner on the right onto wall above and
small ledges above overhang. Move slightly right then up wall for 9m before moving left onto the clean
edge of a heathery ledge. Climb the twin cracks on the right-hand side of the wall above to reach
large belay ledge.
2: 4b 20m Move right into a heather bay and climb the crack (block to start) in the left facing wall to
the top.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 18/06/78
Ballaghageeha Buttress
Directions: A steep clean crag standing on the right (south west) flank of the Ballaghgeeha Gap and
facing north west down the glen. Most easily approached from the OwenreetBarra Valley; Park just
south-west of the head of Glenveagh in a large car park (G R B967155). From here the top of the
crag can be seen on the sky line, just left of the gap. About 30-40 minutes walk.
The alternative approach is up the glen - about 1.5 hours of heavy going.
The crag is up to 60m in height and split into two distinct sections by the deep overhung groove taken
by Dexterity and marked by the large grassy ledge about 10m from the ground. To the left of this, the
rock is open and inviting, easy angled to start but gradually steepening towards the middle; to the
right the crag is steeper and more forbidding.
Map ref: B
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Pebbles HS 4a 55m **
Climb steep wall 3m left of Unnamed route to a small ledge. Continue straight up(easier crack option
on left) to a big platform. Move left and climb thin crack in the middle of the wall, climb the next even
thinner crack(small cam at base) to another platform. Climb the vein(unnamed route??) on the big
slab(no gear but easy climbing) to another ledge. Place gear and continue along the vein for another
few metres. Trend right over easy ground to small corner. Move right and step onto slab and climb on
small holds to a large break(size1 or 2 cam).Traverse right to vertical wall and climb crack on to large
platform. Care is needed exiting this belay ledge, particularly in the wet.
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney, G. Scott. April 09
Un-Named Route S 35m
Start 10m from the left edge of the buttress is a 10m high flat topped pillar, separated from the crag
by a deep crack. Start at the foot of this. Up the crack to the top of the pillar. Continue up the obvious
crack above and then trend left up the line of weakness in the slab.
P. Kenny, M. Laracy, R. Dolan
Route Two S 40m **
Start As for Un-named Route. Up the crack to the top of the pillar. Continue up crack as for Un-named
Route to a ledge at 6m. Move up and right to small flake. Up past this to a large flake and then left to
belay or continue up the deep sloping chimney crack above to the top.
F. Winder, E. Healy Aug 55
Diagonal VD 60m **
Start: As for Un-named Route. Excellent route on clean rock.
1: 20m Up the crack for about a metre and step right onto the wall. Follow a line of ledges up and
right to reach a good crackline. Climb this until the broad clean platform on the right is reached and 
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
belay.
2: 20m From the belay climb the steep crack above 4m and then move right to join another crack. Up
this to the'cave' and stance above.
3: 20m Follow crack, initially in the corner and then out onto the face. Step right at the small
overhang and up to the top.
H. Drasdo, P. McMahon, N. Masterson Aug 55
Summer of My Dreams VS 4c 40m
1: 15M Climb Cracks straight to spike and ledge.
2: 15M Step left and slightly down to groove with peg. Up groove to ledge and follow groove above to
grass and large blocks.
3: 10M Up obvious crack on the right to top.
G. Murray and M. McNaught June 92
Patagonian Summer HVS 5a 50m **
A few metres to the right of Diagonal there is an obvious crack. The start is slightly overhanging but
the angle eases quickly and the holds are good. After the crack, climb a short slab to a good belay at
c12m. From the belay climb up for about 2m and step right on ledge. Climb the thin crack with the old
peg(crux) for a few metres to a ledge and a corner crack. Climb this and bypass the grass at the top
on either the right or left. Move up over a large block to the right of the overhangs to gain the final
crack(large hexes and size 3 friends). Climb this and continue over a small bulge to gain the top and
some rather suspect boulders.
K Mc Gee, P Tinney. 19/07/08
Emmigrants Eyes HVS 5a 36m
Start 5M right of Diagonal at little black V and obvious flakes.
1: 16M Climb up on large flat holds, move left into groove. Up grooves to grass sod and ledge. Step
2M right and mantleshelf onto ledge. Move left to belay.
2: 20M Traverse right along ledge, move up and using holds on the right to obvious groove. Climb
groove moving slightly right and then follow quartz groove to belay.
G. Murray and M. McNaught June 1992
The Mistress HVS 5a 52m ***
1: 30m Start about 4m left of the v-chimney, climb directly up the wall to a stance on the ramp below
the bottom of a crack system. Follow the steep and strenuous wall on small holds for about 2m to a
jug and solid nut placement. Continue up the rightward curve on better holds to a good stance in a
corner below a small bulge. Climb directly over this and up the face for 3m and traverse left to gain
the corner crack. Climb this to the top and then follow it to the right across the slab. Downclimb from
the spike onto the grassy ledge and belay.
2: 22m Climb the steep corner crack to a small ledge on the right wall c4m. Place gear(small offset
nuts) and continue up the crack past a large tuft of grass to a good stance below the final wall. Climb
up the crack(small cams and medium nuts). Numerous ledges on the left wall allow for rests and
placing gear. Pull onto the small platform and climb up through the boulders to belay and enjoy the
view. A few small rock steps and slabs have to be climbed to exit the belay and get to the top of the
hill.
K. Mc Gee, P. Tinney. 27/06/09
Berserker Wall HVS 5b 48m **
Start: At the foot of the rock gangway which cuts across the buttress from left to right, leading to
corner below grassy ramp.
1: 24m Follow gangway to below V-chimney, which is about 10m left of the black corner and big
grassy ledge. Climb wall to foot of the chimney. Traverse left to thin flake, climb up and back right to
good ledge.
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
2: 24m Climb corner to ledge. Pass perched block and climb thin crack past old peg. Step left into
niche and up easily to the top.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo 26/08/56
Anachronism E2 5c 55m
Start: 5m right of Berserker Wall.
1: 20m Grapple up the steep wall to a ledge at 8m. Go up the wall above to a meeting with Berserker
Wall and then traverse back right along a ledge system to a grassy belay ledge.
2:35m Move back left from the belay for 4m and then go up the wall to a large sloping ledge. Follow
this up for 3m to an overhanging wall. Climb this moving left to gain the perched block on Berserker
Wall. Follow this for 5m, past an old peg, but climb straight up to a large ramp. Continue up this ramp
to a quartz vein, and strike up this to the top.
D. Stelfox, A. McFarlane 17/11/88
Tooth Fairy HVS 5b 65m
Start slightly to the right of Anachronism on the highest outcrop of grass. Climb up the wall to gain the
ramp above. Move right to the quartz vein, climb the left side of this to the next ledge. Move left and
follow a series of small holds and mantle on to the wide ledge. Traverse right to the corner of the
grassy ledge and climb up the steep crack, go right when it splits and move back left after a few
metres to a stance and small nut placement. Make a long reach up to the right to a good hold and
follow the cracks and holds to the same belay point as Kongen below the left edge of the overhang.
Climb straight up the corner above.
K. McGee, P. Tinney. 14/07/12
Dexterity VS 30m
Start: Route takes the big central corner right of Berserker Wall. The climbing starts from the grassy
ledge at the foot of the corner which is reached by either scrambling in from the right or Pitch 1 of
Kongen. Climb the overhang capped V-corner groove until a step can be made onto the arete.
Traverse left for 2m and ascend slabs to easier ground.
N. Drasdo, H. Drasdo 10/08/59
Kongen HVS 5a 63m
Start: About 3m right of the wet corner at the end of the ramp leading up to the large grassy ledge
below Dexterity, there is a short wall leading to a grass terrace.
1: 15m Climb the wall passing on the left a small grass terrace and surmount the detached bracket
above. Scramble up grass and belay at the foot of the crack in the wall above.
2: 24m Climb the steep wall above to the right of the crack, joining the crack at 5m. Climb the crack
with 1 aid point to just beneath the bulge above. Surmount this on good holds to a jug above. Climb
the wall above to a small sloping ledge and airy belay at the foot of the corner.
3:24m Traverse left to where a vague pink quartz vein runs upwards. Gain a small sloping shelf
above (2 aid points). Continue up the vague groove to the mantleshelf (crux), and continue up easier
ground above to block belay.
P. Redmond, D. Walsh 15/08/74
Grasshopper VS 4c 60
Start a few metres right of Kongen. Climb straight up the wall passing a grassy ledge on the right and
continue up the crack(frequently wet) behind this to the grassy terrace. Scramble up the grass that
leads to Dexterity and step right on to a sloping ledge at the bottom of the arete to belay. Climb the
wall on the right edge of the arete. Gently jam past the perched block and then swing back on to the
right edge of the arete and climb this to the top.
K McGee, P Tinney. 21/07/12
Adamantium E1 5a 60m
Start about 2 metres left of Chasing the Dragon.
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Pitch 1: 35m (5a) Climb up on good holds for 4metres and go left to ledge and old wedged hex. From
ledge move out right and up to the large grass ledge. Move right and climb up left facing corner crack
and then up easier angled rock to small grass ledge. From here move out right to steeper rock and
small ledge and belay.
Pitch 2: 25m (5a) Climb the steep face directly above on good jugs to a small triangle shaped alcove
with small roof. Leave the alcove via crack on left and gain large ledge. Traverse right along ledge for
a couple of metres to large crack. Finish up the large crack to good belay ledge.
P. Tinney, K. McGee 08/06/13
Chasing the Dragon E3 5c 60m **
A very clean, bold route which starts on the short steep wall at the right hand side of the crag.
1: 40m Climb the steep wall boldly, just left of the large white circle of lichen to join a short crack
which forms at the top of the wall. Pull onto the ledge and climb the cracks directly behind, at the top
move right to heather ledge. Belay on the pillar.
2: 20m Step right and climb the main line passing the ledge and small overhang on the right side.
Climb cracks to top.
P. Dunlop, K. Gallagher May 1993
To the right of Kongen and chasing the Dragon is a wide dirty chimney which was climbed by P.
McDermott and E. Goulding in May 68. It is not recommended' (1985 guide).
Jaundiced Eyes HVS 5a 20m
This route is found at the far right-hand side of the crag just before the gully. Climb up the wall into an
overhanging corner. Climb this strenuously and then easily up the wall to the top.
D. Stelfox. M. Stelfox July 91
The Castle
Directions: Fastest way in is from the Lough Barra side. Park about half a mile further South East
down the road from the usual stone dump car park. Follows the valley/stream to small lake.
Map ref:
A small isolated buttress to the left of the Castle.
Dougerry S 57m
Start:To the left of the rib in a recess below a prominent gully.
1: 27 m. Climb up steps below gully and move out of recess to the right on good holds. Continue up
groove, over vegetated ledge to large flake (loose). From the top of the flake, move up right by the
groove and mantleshelf onto small ledge. Traverse left onto horizontal cracks and swing awkwardly
into gully on left. Spike belay.
Alternative pitch 1. Start 24 m to the right of the recess. Climb the crack in the corner and pull over
left to grassy ledge. Block belay. (1b) 10 m Continue up slabs and mantleshelf onto small ledge.
Traverse left on horizontal cracks to belay in gully.
2: 30 m. Climb the gully over mixed rock and vegetation to the top.2. 30 m. Climb the gully over
mixed rock and vegetation to the top.
D. Johnson, G. Farrington, P. Smythe, C. Clarke 03/03/63
Culham Rib VD 60m
The most north easterly end of the spur, finishes in a north facing cliff. This climb starts up the centre
of this cliff and then traverses left to the rib running up its left-hand side, which is followed to the top.
A.J. Maxfield
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
East Buttress Climb VD 100m
The route takes a long rib about 100m to the left of the Castle, with a gully on its right hand side.
A.J. Maxfield, M. Rittman
The following route climbs the prominent rib to the right of the deep grassy gully on the left of the face.
Greystone Rib HS 4b 130m
1: 4a 55m Nice climbing up the rib on clean rock to belay below a steeper wall.
2: 4b 40m move right and climb the wall left of the crack and up heather above to an overhanging
corner.
3: 4b 35m Climb the wet corner and up the vegetated diedre above or take the exposed arête on the
left.
Abseil off the back of the rib into Castle Gully behind the face .
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo and party 04/54
Green Grass Gully VS 100m
The obvious deep gully at the left-hand end of The Castle containing some particularly savage grass
sections.
W. Gibson, W. McMurray 1950
Ulysses VS 150m
From the base of Green Grass Gully start up the rib on the right of the gully.
1: 12m Climb edge (peg runner at 6m) to small grass ledge and flake belay.
2: 30m Crux pitch. Two series of stepped ledges run right, towards the centre of the face. Take the
higher series - a hard start. Ascent it until a steep step makes progress difficult at about 13m.
Traverse right around this step and pull up shallow corner above. From a flake on the slab, traverse 
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
diagonally up right until it is possible to descend into a grass filled corner and belay.
3: 18m Climb the groove directly above (This groove is about 8m left of the obvious gully on the left
of Portcullis Wall). Put out on a curious ear of rock just left of the groove and stand on it. Move into
corner above and climb it to spike on left and belay.
4: 25m Up pink wall on left. Exit left.
5: 18m Follow broken steps into base of prominent groove. Large spike belay slightly to the left.
6: 24m Climb groove and exit right at the top. Ascend on small jugs to slabs above. Climb to ledge
with groove on right. Block belay.
7: 23m Move into groove and ascend this to the top.
F. Winder, E. Healey, H. Drasdo 17/08/55
To Be Continued...... HVS 4c 58m
Start directly below the center of Porcullis wall, immediatly to the left of the large white slab at base of
main face.
1: 4c 38m Climb the left facing corner to a heather stance, trend right and climb right facing arch to
another heather stance. Climb the shallow left facing corner, continue, trending back left to another
shallow left facing corner. Belay.
2: 4c 20m Climb corner to a superb flake and pull up on to a micro stance at base on a knobbly
gearless slab. Tip toe and smear up slab and up through the heather band to the center of the base of
Portcullis Wall.
Portcullis Wall looks, Ahem, a bit harder, TO BE CONTINUED!
I. Miller (Gri_Gri Solo) 27/09/07
Dubliners VS 150m
Start directly below the vertical corner that can be seen at the right-hand end of Portcullis Wall (the
clean vertical wall in the centre of the buttress).
1: 9m Climb a short crack (3m) to a vegetated ledge.
2: 15m Traverse slightly left and climb slab to end up on vegetation after 6m. Up mixed vegetation to
belay.
3: 30m Climb mixed rock and vegetation to base of vertical corner between Portcullis Wall and
buttress on right.
4: 12m Up chimney for 2m then cross right wall to gain ledge around corner. Up by sloping shelves to
top of chimney.
5: 30m Move a few feet right, then left on easier ground, until an awkward mantleshelf at 30m leads to
a rightward leaning crack and belay.
6: 30m Up crack to overhang at 10m. Traverse right and descend. Hard long step to gain ledge. Up
groove and move left to belay on grass ledge.
7: 24m Up slab, and at 6m move left to crack. Up this to top. Crack can be avoided by exposed move
on the Ieft.
A further 210m of scrambling leads to the top of the cliff
E. Healey B. MacCall, F. Winder 06/04/58
Finnegans Rake D 140m
A poor route wandering up broken rock and grassy .
Follow cracks on the right-hand side of the front face of The Castle. The climb starts from a detached
block at the right-hand end of the front face and trends leftwards.
H. Drasdo. E. Healey, F. Winder Aug 55
Original Route S 165m
Another poor route, starting in the same place as Finnegans Rake but following a line up the right
hand edge of the crag, taking in a large pillar at about 60m.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo April 54
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
The route takes a line up the obvious black wall half way up the right-hand side wall of The Castle.
Black Wall VS 120m
Climb the crack in the middle of the wall to gain the first of two dubious looking blocks. Continue up
the wall to gain second large block. Climb wall above to belay Slow to dry. Follow rib on the left on
easier ground to the top.
AJ Maxfield, M. Rittman
The following two routes are on the left hand wall on the deep gully on the right of the Castle face.
Claymore in the Gully E1 5b 55m **
Climbs a line low down on the fine clean wall on the other side of the gully from Rafiki.
1: 5b 35m. About 10m up from the mouth of the gully are three stepped left trending ledges. Climb
these to good foot hold above the third. Move right across small hanging corner then up steeply (crux)
to small ledge. Continue straight up past some thin flakes and small overhang into short crack groove,
exiting left to niche below slab. (belay possible) move up niche and tippy toe left across thin seam in
slab to heather. Belay in crack in short wall.
2: 4c 20m Move up heather for a few metres till it is possible to step back right onto slab where it
does a step up and there is a fine fist crack. Climb this and cracks and slab above exiting left up wide
crack to avoid headwall at top.
A. Millar, D. Ryan 10/06/05
Spectrum E2 5c 30m **
About half way up the Castle Gully on the same wall as for “Claymore in the Gully” there is an
obvious groove which starts a few metres off the deck. This route takes the groove and wall above.
Start 8m up from “Claymore in the Gully”• below the groove. Climb a small leftward trending ramp to
reach the groove. Climb the groove until it runs out and then climb the obvious thin crack above, 
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
moving left (crux) onto better holds. Assemble gear and then climb the wall above via sloping
horizontal breaks to good ledge. From ledge traverse carefully right and up below an obvious
detached block to where you reach a crack and the top.
D. Millar, A. Millar 06/05
The following routes take are found on the small clean buttress, on the skyline to the right of The
Castle and separated from The Castle by the deep cut Gully mentioned above.
Rafiki VS 72m *
1: 4b 32m From the bottom, left-hand edge of the buttress go up slabby, vegetated rocks to the base
of a small chimney. Climb either the chimney itself or the cracks to the right. Continue up the edge of
the buttress onto vegetated ledges to a good belay at the base of the first steepness of the rib.
2: 4c. 22m Climb on stepped blocks to the left of the rib to reach the edge of the rib. Swing out onto
the rib past old peg and continue up the groove in its centre to avoid the jammed blocks. A nice pitch.
3: 4a. 18m Move up on good rock to the top.
S. Rothery, F. Winder 08/03/59
Chemical Brothers E1 5b 60m
1: 5a As for first pitch Llanwrst or Bust
2: 5b/c15m Climb straight up wall from ledge then right wards past obvious sidepull to crack, then up
to heather platform. Move left to belay at the top of 1st pitch of Rafiki and under corner.
3: 5b 20m Climb corner past first to second ledge. Good small wires protects the thin slabby
sequence to the overhang where there is bomber gear and hand hold. Climb overhang to ledge then
up short steep crack to belay.
D. Millar, A. Millar 15/05/05
Llanwrst or Bust HVS 5a 60m
1: 5a 25m Climb obvious cleaned slab 2m right of Rafiki arete till it steepens at 20m. Move up and
across rightward on good foot edges along short slab under short hanging wall. Use hold in thin right
curving seam (between slab and wall) and smears to move up around the right edge of short wall.
Belay on good ledge
2: 4c 15m Move carefully right for a few metres along foot ledge then climb short steep finger sized
crack (exposed) to heather ledge. Move left and belay as for Rafiki.
3: 4c 20m Move up corner of Chemical Brothers to second ledge then move to right side of this and
climb the slabby looking ramp just right of the overhang to ledge. Move left and up short corner to
belay. A fine climb and all on good rock. (It is possible to go direct from a belay on the right straight up
to right side of the second ledge, via an unprotected mantle shelf at 5b.
A. Millar, D. Ryan, D. Millar 13/05/05
Jubilation S 75m
A poor route on the side of the buttress containing Rafiki. The climb starts at the bottom right-hand
side of the crag and makes a way up easy rocks to a short steep wall overlooking the gully on the
right.
P. Gribbon, J. Madill, S. Rothery, D. Sloan 13/04/52
Bearnas Buttress
Directions: This is the largest crag in the glen, but also the most vegetated, situated on the spur to the
right of the gap in the back wall of the valley, right of "The Castle." The walk in from Dunlewy or Lough
Barra is much the same, about 1.5 hours. This is a very large and serious crag which gets few
ascents, therefore route descriptions,& topos should be treated with caution. The first seven routes
are all on the left flank of the crag, and are described in relation to "Obituary Corner"(a clean diedre
with a red wall)
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
Map ref:
The Outflanker VS 36m
About 30m left of Obituary Corner is a buttress. The route Flanker starts up the middle of this. About
20m left of this is a wall. The Outflanker climbs this wall and moves left into grooves which are
followed to the top.
AJ Maxfield, H. Drasdo, J. Williams
Flanker/Un-named Route VS 96m
Start: Both these routes take the same area of rock - the first buttress left of Obituary Corner - approx.
30m.
1:24m Climb the middle of the buttress to spike belay.
2:30m Follow buttress to a large overhang, with exit on left and V crack above.
3:24m Climb the crack on the right and when above the overhang traverse left onto the main
buttress. Follow the buttress for 9m.
4: 18m Follow the buttress to the top.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo 12/08/59
Saoirse HVS 90m
Start: This route takes the obvious chimney crack left of Obituary Corner. Start below and to the left
of Obituary Corner, and scramble up a gully to a large ledge.
1: 24m Climb a chimney groove which is directly below the corner. There is a large mass of
vegetation in the centre of the groove and small tree at the top.
2: 21 m Climb corner left of Obituary Corner for about 1 m on vegetation. Gain top of some blocks
below a small overhang and move directly up crack on left to gain large flake belay on the left.
3: 30m Traverse right to foot of chimney, climb this taking left-hand crack at the top, leading to 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
heather ledge.
4: 15m Up from belay, tending slightly left after 2m to gain a small corner. Climb this for about a
metre until it is possible to move right to a crack. Climb this and belay on heather ledge. Scramble off
by gully on the left.
E. Goulding, P. McDermott May 68 FFA C. Torrans, S. Billane
Obituary Corner HVS 87m **
The clean overhanging corner with the reddish right wall immediately obvious from below. Start: as for
Saoisre by scrambling up a gully to a large ledge, below and to the left of the Corner.
1: 30m Takes the slab immediately right of the chimney on Pitch 1 of Saoisre. Climb the slabs,
trending slightly right and gain heather ledge directly above. Continue to the foot of the corner.
2: 30m Climb corner for 9m using cracked right wall to top of a large flake. Climb corner crack, getting
steadily harder, using aid (3-4 points). Above the aid, continue up crack using chockstone and holds
on walls to ledge and belay.
3: 27m The right wall has an obvious traverse line. Gain this (2 aid points used) to reach flake block
in right-hand grassy crack. Stand on this and traverse back left (2 aid points used) to gain main
groove again. Continue up this groove to top belay. May be more sensible to climb directly up corner
crack. Traverse left and climb gully to the top, emerging at the same point as Slanting Grooves and
Route Major.
P. McDermott E. Goulding May 68
Obituary Column VS 150m
Start: At the corner column approx 20m right of Obituary Corner. The route follows the right-hand side
of the column to finish up slabs on the right.
C. Bonnington, N. Estcourt
Borgia VS 90m
Start: 10m right of Obituary Column Climb a corner crack. Move left to Obituary Column, climb it for
6m and then cross left to the top pitch of Obituary Corner.
AJ Maxfield, H. Drasdo, J. Williams
Crippin VS 90m
Start: Approx 6m right of Borgia Climb a crack in the centre of the buttress. Follow another crack to
gain the top of a pinnacle. Climb right across a wall and slabs to the top.
AJ Maxfield, M. Rittman
The next five routes all start from the bottom, front face of the buttress and weave a complicated
pattern up the crag often crossing and merging. The main features are the obvious groove line
slanting up from left to right and taken by Slanting Grooves; The Field, a huge grass ledge at the top
of the initial 75m of slab and below the overhanging band; and the grassy gully at the right-hand side,
marking the starting point of Route Major.
Slanting Grooves VS 140m
Climb the obvious groove running up the buttress from left to right and then breaking out on the right
wall. Start by scrambling up steep grass trending left to corner left of the groove proper. Most parties
will want to rope up for this and other starts.
1: 25m From the corner move right and up slabby groove to a grassy ledge. Continue up groove to
another grassy ledge. Linear B joins at this point.
2: 28m The groove steepens and is climbed by wide crack to pedestal. From top of this climb steep
crack with hard mantleshelf. Above this is a slabby groove which is delicately climbed to steep grass
and ledge.
3: 18m Walk to left and ascend steep crack followed by easier climbing to a ledge.
4: 30m The tower above is split by a deep V groove which is reached from the left by a steep wall.
Climb the groove and belay on grass ledge above.
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
5: 39m Ascend a deep chimney crack, then easier scrambling to a grass ledge at 27m. Walk left on
vegetation and up to top. It is possible to avoid pitches 4 and 5 by traversing off left along grass
ledges and a short slab (severe).
RB Evans, BA Fuller, A. Austin, J. Ruffe 03/08/57
The next three routes all start at the same point.
Linear B and Maxfield Fryer Route start by taking a fairly direct line up the middle of the buttress
towards the Field. Here, Linear B moves left to join the bottom of Pitch 2 of Slanting Grooves. The
Maxfield Fryer Route crosses the Field, joins Route Major for Pitch 4, and then moves right again to
the top. The Direct starts in the same place but takes a different route also to arrive at the Field. It
then goes more or less directly up to join Route Major for pitches 6-9.
Linear B VS 255m
1: 36m Scramble up grass to the left of a very large slab.
2: 27m Move onto the rib and follow its right-hand edge until crack leads to grass stance.
3: 33m Climb a short slab to another grass ledge. Traverse left to a vegetated crack and up this to
where it steepens into a corner. Cross the slab left on undercuts to corner and the start of another
crack on the right edge of the slab. Two aid points used to gain holds on slab on the right, which is
climbed to grass and heather ledge. The Maxfield Fryer Route moves right at this point.
4: 30m Up on grass and heather to a better ledge directly above. Climb wall and continue up
vegetated gangway to beneath overhanging corner.
5: 21 m Move down to the left, step round rib and ascend groove to grass ledge. Move up left into little
slab and step left into groove. Climb up a few feet, then step right and move up onto grass ledge.
6:12m Move awkwardly up short wall into crack between blocks and climb left to the pedestal on
Slanting Grooves (Pitch 2).
105m As pitches 2-5 of Slanting Grooves.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo, V. Stevenson 11/08/59
Maxfield Fryer Route VS 255m
1: 96m As for Linear B Pitches 1-3.
4: 24m Cross to the right and down by right-hand edge of the slabs below. A large flake gives access
to a ledge leading to the foot of a fine crack that widens into a chimney at about 4m.
5: 24m Climb the crack and chimney to reach the Field.
6: 78m Scramble and walk up and across the Field to arrive at the bottom of Pitch 4 of Route Major.
7: 9m As Route Major Pitch 4 - Ascend left to foot of slabs.
8: 18m Climb wall about 2m right of Route Majors slab. Difficult and unpleasant climbing over walls
and grass filled cracks leads to a grass ledge and belay.
9: 15m Continue much as before to large grass ledge and easy exit on the right.
AJ Maxfield, R. Fryer 23/06/59 (2aid pts)
The Direct HVS 255m *
1: 30m Zig zag up heather strips to belay at foot of a rib.
2: 24m Move up on the right of the rib to a big flake and cross to the right hand side of the narrowing
recess. Go up and through the bottleneck and then by heather onto grassy shelf.
3: 27m Go up by cracks to a heather ledge (top of Pitch 2 of Linear B and Maxfield Fryer Route).
Move up and rightwards to a bulge, climbed with one aid point. Move into crack on the right to
insecure vegetation and short chimney groove at the left end of overhangs.
4: 27m Climb chimney groove and pull out onto heather using 1 aid point. Up heather left of large
flake and follow ledge rightwards to foot of heather filled chimney crack. Climb this to bottom left-hand
corner of the Field and junction with Maxfield Fryer Route.
5: 15m Walk along ledge to right, ascend short step and go up left on heather to large bollard on
bottom right of big slab.
6: 30m Step left and follow heathery gangway then ascend directly up slab and continue up corner.
Surmount final step and move up to thread belay in corner.
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
7: 24m Mount flake, move right and go up heather to the foot of Pitch 6 of Route Major.
8: 24m Move right from the bottom of the corner of Route Major and climb a tower, leading out to a
belay at the top of Pitch 6 of Route Major.
9: 24m As for Route Major pitch 7.
10: 15m As for Route Major pitch 8.
11: 15m Follow the chimney directly above to the top.
J. Williams, H. Drasdo July 69 (Pitches 1-7) HVS (3 aid pts) Start: As for Linear B and Maxfield Fryer
Route.
Route Major HVS 5a 243m *
Start: Scramble up the gully to below the rock step, and where an obvious grass tongue comes down
the slab on the left.
1: 60m Gain this grass tongue and follow it left to a small stance about 6m below a small tree and
12m below an overhang.
2: 12m Continue up easily into the corner above.
3: 42m Move left to spike. Step up and continue up left on thin traverse line to flake hold giving access
to a turf ledge. Continue left, then right to a good stance in a corner.
4: 9m Ascend left to foot of slabs (as pitch 5 of Maxfield Fryer Route).
5: 42m Traverse across the short slab (usually wet). Move down slightly and continue traversing left to
reach the foot of a huge flake, 5m up the wall, above a grass re - -
6: 24m Climb crack to left edge of flake. Continue up the corner cracks above until it narrows to
disappearing. Using fixed peg swing out across the wall to a good flake. Reach up and left to a peg in
below a large block, which is used to swing across to a grassy groove on the left. Continue up to
ledge and belay.
7: 24m Climb the short wall above (combined tactics or aid for the initial moves) to gain the heather
ledge on the right. Move to the right end of this and climb a short wall to ledge. Continue up the wet
chimney above to a large ledge. A further short step leads to a recess and belay. Difficult to arrange
protection for second on the initial crux wall.
8: 15m Continue up the chimney to a grass ledge running leftwards.
9: 15m or 30m Either up the chimney directly above as for The Direct or drop off the left-hand of the
ledge onto grass ramp and follow mixed ground to the top.
H. Drasdo, E. Langmuir, AJ Maxfield 10/04/59
The following two routes climb the steep clean rock to the highest point on the face. Access the start
from below by climbing the first 5 pitches of The Direct to the in-situ peg belay. The easier and
recommended approach is by abseil.
From the northwest end of Loch an Tairbh Mor head up and slightly left for 10 minutes to the shallow
col on the skyline, B 943 164. From the col head down on the Poisoned Glen side at an easy angle
for about 100m until the top of a steep grassy gully can be seen running down on the left. There is a
big flat-topped boulder straight ahead, move right before this and then descend more steeply for 20m
to a large detached flake and fixed abseil.
Abseil or scramble down the vegetated ramp for 10m to a small rounded light coloured flake. A 50m
ab leads to a sloping ledge with good nut placements. A further 50m abseil leads to a big vegetated
ledge with a fixed peg belay at the bottom of the right-facing corner.
The Streets of Laredo E4 (6a,5b) 50m **
Approach as for Gallowglass to the small rounded flake. The route finishes up the blocky corner to
the right of Gallowglass, facing out. A 50m abseil down this corner and straight on down brings you to
a big grassy ledge. The climb takes the arête on the right wall.
P1 26m After a bouldery start to reach a small ledge continue up the flake crack to a horizontal crack
(good gear). Make a hard move over the bulge to reach a good ledge. Climb the shallow crack above, 
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
aid used to gain the small foothold on the right, and from here, cowboy, lasso the good rounded flake
up on the left and scrabble up and left to the ledge. Belay in the groove here so you can watch your
second do the same.
P2 24m. Climb the quartzy crack in the right corner before moving left onto the sloping ramp, then
continue up the shallow curving crack to the bottom of the big left facing corner. This is followed more
easily to the top.
C. Torrans C. Sheridan 15/06/15
Gallowglass E4 (5c,6a) 100m ***
P1 50m Climb the corner to the overhang, traverse right and gain the niche/groove above (care
needed - rope will jam). Climb the groove and move right to the quartzite crack which is followed to
the sloping belay ledge.
P2 50m Climb the steep wall directly above the belay, difficult and sustained and continue up the
fault line until forced right onto the quartzy arête. Easier climbing leads to an overhang with an
undercut flake on the left. Above the overhang pleasant cracks run up to the last big overhang which
has a wide crack on the right. Swing up onto the final slab on the right to finish.
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 23/04/15
Sluice VD 54m
There are two further routes in the area of rock between the end of the main Bearnas Buttress and
the start of West Buttress. High up there is a clean cut chimney. The approach is rather bad
scrambling. The route follows the chimney.
E F Davies, H Drasdo
Tobi Ishi VS 93m *
Start: To the right of Sluice is a large buttress with two thin grass ledges in its lower half joined by
cracks on the left-hand side of the buttress.
1: 15m Climb onto the lowest grass ledge on the right of the buttress.
2: 27m Climb the crack onto the second grass ledge at 5m. Climb the second crack to reach the top
of the lower buttress. Step off the top of the buttress across a crack onto a slab with grass tongue on
the left. Climb to the end of the tongue and belay.
3: 27m Move right into a corner (5m), climb this to gain another slab with a similar grass tongue.
Climb up to blocks and belay.
4: 24m Move left and climb easier slabs to the top.
AJ Maxfield, R. Wilde June 69
West Buttress
Directions:
Map ref: B939165
The three earliest routes here follow the three diedre of the West Buttress. To the left of the first (left
hand) diedre is a black gully, and left again is a small buttress containing Piglet's Crack.
Piglet's Crack VS 24m *
To the left of the first diedre on the West Buttress is a black gully, left of this is a small buttress. Climb
the 24 m crack.
R. Wathen, B.E.H. Maden 14/04/58
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
At the left hand end of the West Buttress is an enormous, diedre.
Golliker VS 150m
Scramble up from the left to the base of the diedre. Climb groove with two or three awkward moves
to reach where the groove steepens into a chimney about 45m from the base of the diedre. Follow the
chimney crack to where it runs out in to an overlap. Move out left, then back right to reach ridge
above. A further pitch of scrambling leads to the top. Heavily vegetated and unpleasant route -
cleaning would help restore it.
H. Drasdo, H.J. Thornton 22/08/56
The Central Diedre
Nightshade HVS 155m ***
This fine classic route takes the obvious central diedre of the buttress and continues over the
overhangs in an almost direct line to the top. Climbed with various amounts of aid over the years, it
has been free climbed but which climbers did it first is not known. The climbing is relatively straightforward
but is sensational and well recommended route.
Scramble up the grass to a tongue of slab which descends to the right of the diedre.
1: 24m Up the slab to possible flake belays at 14m. Climb a groove, step left and down to flake belay.
2: 15m The overhang above is split by a V crack. Climb the crack, then left for about 1 m. Tension
move down left to below a thin green crack. Climb this with difficulty to a comfortable stance in the
diedre proper.
3: 21 m Easier climbing up the diedre or good holds to belay.
4: 21 m Step up left to a rib which is followed for 5m until one can step back airily right into crack.
Climb this with difficulty, to a small stance and belay beneath overhang.
5: 36m The only break in the overhang is the wall on the right. Reach out to spike at 3m and
mantleshelf. Mantelshelf again onto peg in the crack above (normally in situ). Repeat the process up 
20
www.uniqueascent.ie
to the top peg and traverse up right across the slab. Then up edge of slab to a tight chimney, followed
by an overhang. Up to belay. Kon Tiki shares the last 9m of this pitch and the rest of the route.
6: 21 m Ascend an awkward rib followed by a groove to belay on grass strip with vertical right wall.
7: 17m Swing right into the corner and climb mostly up the pockled right wall, up to right via small
overhang to top.
R.B. Evans, J.A. Austin (Alt. leads), B.A. Fuller 04/08/57
Micheál E1 5b 159m ***
This route takes the first pitch of Nightshade and then follows a series of steep cracks and grooves
direct up the face to the right of the Nightshade diedre.
1: 24m Scramble up the grass to a tongue of slab which descends to the right of the diedre. Climb
the slab to possible flake belays at 14m. Follow the groove, usually wet and step left and down to
flake belay. (first pitch of Nightshade)
2. 24m 4c Climb the steep corner on the right side of the belay ledge. Continue straight up the
groove, when it ends trend leftwards up the slab to a good crack. Belay at the bottom of the main
crack.
3. 30m 4c Climb the steep crack and follow the rightward curve to the arête. Continue up the face to
a good belay stance a few metres below the main arête.
4. 30m 5b Go directly up the wall to gain the base of the arête. Climb the steep upper crack on the
left edge of the arête and stray on to the arête proper where possible. Exit right and belay in the crack
below the overhanging headwall.
5. 30m 5b Climb the short steep crack and continue up the slabs and easy ground to the top.
K. McGee, I. Miller 23/09/14
The next two routes share the same start. Kon Tiki, climbed in 1956, takes a devious line from the
base of the right-hand diedre moving leftwards to finish up Nightshade, and involves diagonal abseils
and tension traverses. Rah free-climbs the main pitch of Kon Tiki and then follows the obvious groove
which Kon Tiki avoids.
Rah E2 5c 142m ***
Starting 8m left of a prominent square overhang at the right-hand side of the buttress in a small pink
gully, about 60m below the foot of the diedre and right of the slab tongue at the start of Nightshade.
1: 4a 60m Scramble up to the chimney at the foot of the diedre.
2: 5a 15m Climb chimney to where it narrows, belay below diedre.
3: 5c 20m Traverse down left to grass ledge. Descend grass strip to small foothold on the left and a
sloping shelf below fine crack on the left. Gain sloping ledge and with a long reach gain good flake
handhold. Continue up crack passing spike on left, and good holds on the left wall to reach arete.
Cross the arete and continue left over a cracked slab to huge block and a small tree.
4: 4a 30m Make delicate moves right with increasing difficulty to gain flake at foot of corner. Climb
corner until forced onto the right wall. Move up wall onto arete on good holds. Using two nuts for aid in
crack parallel to arete step down left to crack and ledge. Gain ledge with difficulty. Up overhang to
ledge above (crux). From second ledge move left to large ledge (difficult) and belay in crack in round
the corner to the left.
5: 17m As for pitch 7 of Nightshade - up corner to the top.
C. Torrans. C. Sheridan l3/06/78
Kon Tiki HVS 5a 140m
Pitches 1-3 (see Rah's description.)
4: 27m Up chimney in corner pass stance on right to second chimney. Easier climbing to overhang
with good holds and stance below steep corner. Last 9m is in Nightshade Pitch 5.
5: 40m As for Nightshade pitches 6 and 7 to the top.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo 27/08/56
21
www.uniqueascent.ie
Between the two gullies on the right-hand side of the buttress there are two slabs. The following route
starts just above the point where the two gullies join, starting with a short chockstone pitch in the lefthand
gully.
Serial Slabs VS 157m
1: 40m Up the gully past the chockstone, until an awkward step right can be made to the foot of the
first slab. Climb groove in corner of slab to belay on grass.
2: 21 m Continue up the corner onto a small slab. Move right up the mossy slab and then back into
the corner beneath the overhangs. Move right and up slab again (1 aid point) and continue to corner
to good ledge beneath second slab. An alternative to Pitches 1 and 2 is to take the slab lying parallel
to and above the first slab.
3: 24m Start about 1 m right of the corner and ascend the slab to a short slimey crack. This can be
climbed or turned on the slab. Continue up corner crack to reach vegetation. Move over shoulder on
the right into recess beneath upper capstone on right-hand gully.
4: 12m Climb round chockstone by slab on left and continue to a suitable belay.
Above this point a leftward line in the gully is taken, giving a further 60m of scrambling with some
short sections of V. Diff.
H. Drasdo, N. Drasdo 1PA 09/08/59
The following route takes the RHS of a huge flake, to the right of Serial Slabs and right of the deep
gash & gully.
Return of the Eagles HVS 5a 50m
1: 5a 25m Start in obvious cleaned 75 degree corner, & climb it until forced up left into another higher
vertical corner. Climb it (peg in situ) to exit onto slab (crux). Move left along groove,& delicately up
thin crack to large ledge & belay.
2: 4b 25m Continue up left on offwidth (good holds) until it becomes overhanging, forming the edge
of a flake. Excellent hidden jugs lead to exposed stance on top of flake. Step off right hand edge of
flake & climb 20m meandering crack up the headwall to vegetated ledge. Short wall & steep mixed
ground to the top.
M. McGuigan, A. Tees (alt leads) M. McGuigan
Last Small Buttress
Directions: This is a group of small buttresses high on the right hand side of the glen, and overlooking
the West Buttress. The walk in is long, and the routes are shorter than others in the glen, but the rock
can also be cleaner and is east facing.
Map ref: B937168
Rattlesnake Rib VD 54m *
This route takes the well defined rib on the left of the central or largest of the crags.
1: 12m Climb broken rock up the edge of the first steepness.
2: 12m Climb the groove immediately left of the edge to a small stance.
3: 18m Follow the rib on excellent rock as near the edge as possible.
4: 12m Continue up the rib. The first steepness can be avoided.
S. Rothery, F. Winder 29/03/59
Anaconda Corner S 4a 60m
The topmost of the buttress presents a steep red wall to the valley. The Central crack of this wall is
taken by Mamba. Left of the red wall is Cobra Cracks and left of this is a prominent rib, above and
right of two converging grass gullies. Anaconda Corner starts at this rib.
1: 42m Climb steep grass and rock to corner recess under steep crack.
2: 18m Climb steep crack to pedestal stance at 6m. Up open leaf corner on poor finger jams to pinch 
22
www.uniqueascent.ie
grips on flake. Step left and up easy rock and steep grass to belay.
R. Finlay, H. Moore, T. Hawkins 22/10/74
Cobra Cracks HS 4b 38m
The line to the left of the red wall, going up chimneys and cracks to under the prominent overhang.
1: 21 m Move up to the base of a steep narrow chimney formed by a detached block. Climb the
chimney strenuously and then continue up the next steep crack and out onto a large grass ledge by
steep vegetation.
2: 21 m Move up to the base of a steep narrow chimney and climb it until it becomes possible to
straddle across to a narrow ledge from which an awkward mantleshelf is made to the next step. The
short chimney to the left of the overhang is climbed to a large ledge.
3: 5m A wall, with difficult mantleshelf, leads to the top.
S. Rothery, F. Winder 29/03/59
Mamba VS 33m *
In the centre of the red wall right of Cobra Cracks is an obvious groove. Start up the cracks right of
the groove.
1: 15m Climb cracks and good holds, occasionally moving left to the rib, to a long narrow ledge.
2: 18m Follow the ledge rightwards to gain the terrace above. Finish up the final wall by huge flake
T. Hand, E. Goulding 02/06/79
Rocky Gap Crag
Directions: A remote crag in the Derryveagh Range, being at least 1.5 hours from either Lough Barra
or Dunlewy, (with considerable ascent). From L.Barra, follow the river (Scardangel Burn) up the
waterfall, past the lake between Sl Snaght and Crockbrack, to a col, and traverse to the obvious deep
gully running East- West up the hill, on the right hand side. The routes are mainly on the LHS, but
there is a clean buttress higher up on the right.
Map ref: B932155
Baysellance VD 30m
Take the conspicuous flight of stairs towards the bottom of the crag. Access is gained via a hard
move on the right. Easier variations on the left via chimney.
C. Roberts, A. Tees 15/06/85
Scardangel S 4a 25m
Takes the obvious big, cleaned, (since reclaimed for nesting purposes), corner l0m right of
Baysellance up to overhang, then move out left and up groove.
A. Tees, P. Turley, C. Roberts 15/06/85
Rampant HS 4b 25m **
Climb straight up broken wall 3m right of Scardangal to reach a left trending ramp, which is climbed to
overhangs. Make a long step right to a ledge and follow left hand corner to belay on left. Direct Finish
(4c) - instead of stepping right below overhang, follow a crack running up its left hand side.
P. Turley, A. Tees, C. Roberts 15/06/85
Winding Stair HS 4a 30m
1: 15m Start at the red wardrobe sized, recess towards top of gully. Gain the ledge of the recess, then
use the left hand corner to gain sloping ledge above. Move right on this ledge and climb corner to a
flat ledge on right. Move right around arete and up to bigger ledge and belay.
2: 15m Follow arete to top, moving right to finish.
C.Roberts, P. Turley 16/06/85
23
www.uniqueascent.ie
Definitely not a Wardrobe VD 30m
1: 15m Just around the corner to the right of the red recess is a narrow pillar attached to the wall.
Climb this to top of vegetation and step up to ledge at top of Pitch 1 of Winding Stair.
2: 15m As Winding Stair.
P. Turley 16/06/85
Rocky Gap Ridge D 30m
Follow the arete on the right hand side of the minor gully separating the upper section of the buttress.
A. Tees, RJ Lee 21/09/75
The following two routes sit on wall on the opposite side of the gully. The left hand side of this twin
buttress is characterised by large overhangs at mid-height.
Departure Imminent HVS 5a 40m **
1: 20m The left hand side of the twin buttress on the right of the main gully is characterised by large
overhangs at mid-height. Start at the bottom of arete to left of large central overhang. Climb left side
of arete (stepping into corner on left for short stretch) until level with bottom of overhang. Traverse 
24
www.uniqueascent.ie
right (crux) to large overhang, then up slightly left to good holds and belay ledge.
2: 20m Scramble to top.
P. Turley, C. Roberts 16/06/85
High King S 35m **
1: 15m Start 2m right of the minor gully separating the twin buttresses, at an indefinite corner. Climb
the obvious line of weakness on steep but superb rock to ledge.
2: 20m Continue up same joint system to top, turning a small overhang by the face on the right.
A. Tees, C. Roberts 15/06/85
25
www.uniqueascent.ie
Colmcille Climbers Donegal Ireland