1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A climbers guide to
The Bingorms
By
Iain miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Ben Cormac (Lough Barra)
Directions: Large vegetated crag (Ben Cormac) fernenst Lough Barra. There is a cleaned slab to its
right (Sirloin Slab) and a separate hillock further right (East) again, with an obvious right angled corner
facing the road (Carrig an Sneachda).
Map ref: B926125
Sun seeker VD 120m
Start at the lowest point of the white slabs to the left (facing) of the crag, directly below an
overhanging flake at about 35m. The route takes a meandering line up the left hand side of the slabs.
J. Leonard, SR Young 23/04/73
Paleface VS 115m
Start for "Sun seeker" at the lowest point of the slabs. The route taked a fairly direct line ip the easier
angled pale coloured slabs. It passes through an obvious gap in a heather terrace at about 30M,
continues up the overhanging flake, and climbs a short sickle shaped crack leading to an overhang.
Many variations possible.
R. McKee, P. Wells 19/04/81
Paleface (super Direct) E1 5a 103m *
1. 25m 4A Start at lowest point of slabs, climb up trending left to a grassy stance below a short steep
wall.
2. 25m 4A Climb up the steep wall on perfect jugs and gear, continue direct to a small grassy ledge.
Belay on 2 very poor spikes at base of right facing corner.
3. 28m 5A Climb RH corner to a smaller grassy perch. Climb direct up gearless, holdless immaculate 
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
slab to a steep cracked step. Climb up on to "crow's nest" stance to another poorly geared belay. (20
mtr run out on superb rock and atmosphere)
4. 25m Climb direct to top of slabs and belay left of grassy pillar.
I & M Miller 15/05/05
One and Only VS 125m
This route takes a central line up the main cliff. The central terrace is reached by easy climbing up
the central lower slabs below the prominent corner in the upper part of the terrace. Climb through the
forest to its highest point about 19m right of the corner. Up overhang and then left into corner. Move
out left onto rib, and climb this to easy vegetated ground.
J, Peers, J. Reid 31/08/64
Garda Fox VS 4b 40m **
Start at the top of the vegetation on the left hand side of the slab, beside some small trees. Follow
the L.H.edge of the slabs (starting on a horizontal hold & flake) & continue up, passing a vegetated
ledge on its right. the crux is a layback/mantleshelf move about 2/3 way up(no.1 friend around corner
on left). On reaching overhanging rock, traverse right to gain crack & up to finish. 15m broken ground
to top.
A & A Tees 14/06/03
Sergeant Pluck E2 5b 43m ***-
Start 2 metres left of the lowest point of the slab. Move up left to right trending cracks, surmounting a
slight bulge (delicate) until just below a horizontal quartzite vein. Excellent move up over bulge leads
to thin crack on right which shortly fades out. Step left into major crack in centre of slab and follow
(layback) to top. Good selection of small cams comes in handy.
R. Smith & B. Magowan 02/10/03
4
www.uniqueascent.ie
Jet Stream E1 5c 40m
Start halfway between Sgt Pluck and Tapping the Vein below a thin crack that runs up the slab.
Climb to the bottom of the crack and trend left into Sgt Pluck for a few metres. Step back right at the
top of the crack and move up over the slab to a poor nut/cam in a flake. With the flake on your right
climb directly up the white slab to a good hold beside a tuft of grass. Trend right to gain the crack and
follow this to the top.
K. McGee, P. Tinney. 13/11/11
Tapping the Vein HVS 4c 40m **
This takes the obvious quartzite vein, running up the right hand side of the slab. Unprotected for the
first third of the route. Continue up, over pocket,and climb friction slab to small corner with small holds
on its left edge. Above this, reach flakes and easier ground.
Andy & Alan Tees. 14/06/03
Bismuth C HVS 24m
The original route on Carraeg an Snettir, a small "Hump" below and to the right of Ben Cormac. This
climbs the prominent right angled corner on its right hand side, below a small holly tree.
G. Earnshaw 13/01/64
The Case International Brigade E1 5b 15m
A pleasant route tippy toeing up the crack in the left wall of the main corner.
The Circle Game E4 6a 18m
Left of the main wall, there is a large corner with 3 grooves. This route climbs the centre one, past
several jammed blocks. At the top of this, arrange some small wires, step right and climb the steep 
5
www.uniqueascent.ie
groove above (Technical).
P. Dunlop, J. Brown 9/06/93
14,000 Peach Trees E1 5b 20m
Second corner left of Case International. Climb steep slabby corner. As the rock steepens, jugs
become apparent. Continue to the top. Good small wires at the bottom.
A. Millar, N. Grimes
Bingorm West (Lough Barra)
Directions: Lough Barra
Map ref: B932141
South West Wall
The broken crags reaching from the gully right of Waterfall Buttress to the start of the more
continuous rock of the South Buttress. The routes are generally grassy and without great merit.
Gangway starts, right of the gully there is a clean vertical wall.
Gangway VD 60m
This route follows a line of grooves to the foot of the wall and climbs the prominent crack. From here
follow a vegetated ramp and onto the vertical wall. Traverse along a narrow ledge on the wall and up
to the top.
S. Rothery, U. Moore, E. Gallagher, S. Yates 17/04/60
6
www.uniqueascent.ie
Parsival S 3c 90m
Start Approx. 12m right of Gangway below a holly tree. Climb two short walls, separated by a large
vegetated ledge to the base of a diagonal ramp. Climb wall and step left into ramp which is followed to
a holly tree. Traverse left past one corner, to a second and climb blocks to grassy ledge. Finish up
easy rocks and vegetation.
N. Brown, T. Cullen 17/04/60
Right of these routes the rock becomes even more broken and vegetated and then finally merges
again to form the left edge of the South Buttress. This edge is steep and dark. To the left of this, about
150m above and left of the bottom edge of the buttress is one further route.
Cruddi's Original VD 98m
This route follows a meandering line up the short slabs and walls separated by grassy terraces to the
left of the left edge of South Buttress.
J. Thorley, J. Murray April 62
SOUTH BUTTRESS
This is the fine, fairly continuous buttress of rock to the left of Square Cut Gully. The main features
are the short but striking tilted pockled wall low down on the left (Pitch 2 of Triversion), the broad,
clean sweep of slabs in the middle (Diversion) and the obvious overhang on the right hand side
(Turners Corner). The left edge of the buttress is a mixture of short slabs, walls and grassy rakes. The
first two routes follow weaving lines up this edge, with a search for interest being rather artificial.
Fife/Dunfockery HS 110m
At the left edge of the South Buttress, as the cliff turns up the hill, there is a short broken wall. Climb 
7
www.uniqueascent.ie
the wall and follow slabs to the next wall. Up this, onto a broken slab area and pick one of the many
exits above. Short traverses to the right lead easily into the top of Triversion.
P. Gribbon, B. White April 61
Triversion S 4a 98m **
About 40m left of the lowest part of the South Buttress there is a prominent rib of rock, at the bottom
of the clean sweep of slabs and with a large spike at its base. The climb starts up this rib but then
breaks left to follow another rib.
1: 40m Follow the rib up and then move left onto slabs, vegetated terrace and the base of the
obvious tilted pocked wall.
2: 28m Climb the pockled wall, moving out left at the top to reach a ledge at 16m. Continue up to
belay on large vegetated platform.
3: 22m Descend 2m and move right to the diagonally rising quartzite fault. Follow this easily, though
exposed, to a large overhang. Step down and round this to belay on a large block below the final
headwall.
4: 8m Move right and up to heather and finish, or climb the steep clean corner above (4a) stepping
left near the top.
Diversion S 4a 115m **
Start: As for Triversion. The description given below does not follow exactly the original line but
makes the best of the clean rock. Many variations are possible. Generally the route takes a fairly
direct line up the clean sweep of slabs, to finish through the short steep headwall as Triversion.
1: 30m Climb the rib as Triversion but then move right across slabs to ledge below vegetated ledges.
2 : 25m Climb the narrow pocked ramp on the right of the slabs and immediately left of the
vegetation. Move back right to a ledge level with top of vegetated ramp.
3: 30m up right side of slab, then, at a spike, go right to niche.
Finish as for Triversion up the steep clean corner to the left of the overhang.
P. Kenny, F. Winder Sept 55
The next three routes and their many variations all finish up around the huge overhang on the righthand
side of the buttress.
Turners Corner S 4a 72m
Start at the lowest point of the buttress. The first 42m consists of a rightward rising traverse across
broken slabs and vegetation to below a pock marked slab. Climb the left edge of this and exit by the
overhanging corner with the huge roof on the left.
D. O'Shea, P Kenny, R. Turner 01/04/56
Quarter Tense HS 4b 70m
Start: Immediately below the left end of the roof at the top of Turners Corner is a groove with a line of
vegetation down its centre. The left wall of this groove is stained brown in its upper part. Start by
scrambling up to th e groove.
1: 4a 30m Climb the left wall of the groove until reaching vegetation. Move left and continue up on
rock. Cross vegetated ledge to spike. Straight up above to belay in corner.
2: 4b 22m Climb the corner. Finish up vegetated rake to belay at holly tree below the overhang.
3: 18m Climb up to overhang, traverse right and climb round overhang. Scramble up for 6m to spike
belay and top of Turners Corner.
B. O'Flynn, H. Ouintan 10/06/62
Robbery HS 4b 65m *
1: 18m 3c Up corner of buttress on blocks for about 8m. Traverse round right onto the gully wall and
follow a line of broken blocks to a small ledge to the right of a steep crack.
2: 4b 5m Swing up left into the crack and wander up grassy slab above.
8
www.uniqueascent.ie
3: 3c 12m Traverse left across the face of the slab to arrive at the base of the pockled slab right of
the overhang and belay as for Turners Corner.
4: 4a 30m As Turners Corner climb the left-hand rib of the slab to exit by awkward overhanging
corner, with the main overhang on the left.
P. O'Halpin, D. Moloney 1962
IRA VS 10m
The steep left wall of the Square Cut Gully contains some fine rock but rarely sees the sun and is
thus usually greasy and uninviting. Two routes are recorded which may be worthwhile after a dry
spell. IRA, About a third of the way up the gully wall are two shallow corners formed by thick pillars.
This route takes the lower of these. Move up pillar and swing left at overhang. Up to niche, step left
and up onto block.
P. O'Halpin, N. Kavanagh 10/06/62
IRB HVS 5a 21m
This route follows the upper corner. Move up flake and swing left. Continue straight up on boiler plate
holds to top pillar. Traverse left to small grass ledge and niche. Straight up from niche to small
chimney and strenuously to the top.
P. O'Halpin, N. Kavanagh 10/06/62
Pate Knife by Gulliver E2 5c 28m **
Start as for IRB. Go straight up the crack, past a triangular niche at 6m (20ft). Bear on, and on, to
where the crack trends right. Keep on following it, past a hollow flake, to grassy ledges and the top.
Good value, especially if climbed in the low season. A more directirect 5c Straight up instead of
moving left at flakes.
A. Millar N. Grimes May 91
To the right of Square Cut Gully and separated from it by a series of slab and broken rock,is the clean
upside down triangle of rock known as the Delta Face, bounded on the right by the obvious grey line
of Tarquins Groove. The next seven routes all start on the gully walls to the left and below the Delta
Face before it turns round to Tarquins Groove. These lines share the same area of rock immediately
to the right of Square Cut Gully, following in the upper part the obvious clean white slab.
9
www.uniqueascent.ie
Crypto VS 4c 57m **
Start at the first section of true gully wall in the righthand side of Square Cut Gully. Scramble up to
the bottom of a dark slab and corner.
1: 21m. Climb the good crack above until forced left. Continue through overlaps and move right to
grass ledges. Belay at the foot of the white slab.
2: 36m. Climb slab using right wall for bridging. Crux is near the top.
P. O'Halpin, E. Healey 13/04/63
Mountjoy S 4a 100m
Start: about 30m right of Square Cut Gully there is a subsidiary gully which is bounded on the right by
the bottom overhanging wall of the Delta Face, and on the left by a rib that has an overhang at about
30m. Start at the bottom of the overhang and follow the rib.
E, Healey, F. Winder April 56
Lazarus VS 4c 60m
Start: About 9m up the subsiduary gully to the right of Square Cut Gully and the rib of Mountjoy.
Starts up the ramp which runs from right of the gully, just below and left of a black streaked wall.
1: 30m Climb initial bulge using crack on the right and continue up wall of ramp to heather ledge.
Climb wall behind ledge for 2m and move delicately left to edge. Climb arete to heather ledge and
belay. This pitch is described as dangerous. A massive rock is detached from main face.
2: 30m Move up edge of rib and step right into chimney. Continue up and out right over white slab to
heather ramp, moving diagonally left to belay.
P. O'Halpin, D. Moloney 1962
String of Pearls HVS 255m **
This is a girdle traverse of the crag, rarely done and quite an undertaking. Only the general line is 
10
www.uniqueascent.ie
described here. Climb the first pitch of Mountjoy, or Lazarus. Cross the Delta Face to the top of pitch
4 of Larceny and continue across to the overhang at the top of pitch 5 of Tarquins Groove. Cross the
broken gully of Risorgimento (Thin Gully) and descend to tree at the top of Pitch 3 of Surplomb Grise.
Climb down Pitches 3 and 2 of Rule Britannia. Traverse right to top of Pitch 1 Ploughshare, which is
then followed to top.
D. Agnew, F. Delvin
Napalm the Midges HVS 5a 52m *
Start at the right-hand side of the black streaked wall mentioned above is a corner.
1: 5a 35m Climb the black corner. At 9m step right below the overhang and then left into a steep
corner (crux). From here move up right and then back left on limited protection to belay on ledge on
the left. Steep and sustained.
2: 4b 17m Step back right into the fault and continue on good bridging.
A. Currans, A. McQuoid 28/06/81
Gethsemane E2 5c 84m **
This fine route takes an almost direct line up the Delta Face. Immediately below the apex of the
triangular face is an overhanging wall with a white recess on its right. The climb starts in the recess.
1: 5c 33m Climb the slanting groove in the recess from right to left until stopped by overhangs. Make
a difficult pull out left over the overhangs to a resting place below a very steep wall. Climb the crack in
the wall, using a sling to exit on to the Delta Face. Climb up easily for 5m to belay - top of Pitch 3 of
Larceny.
2: 4c 24m Straight up short layback pitch as for Larceny, but instead of traversing left go straight up
to the smooth walls and climb delicately right into a scoop with small spike runner. Move up to reach
heather and easy rock which is followed to block belay to top of Pitch 4 of Larceny.
3: 4c 21m Step right and climb easily to the foot of an obvious corner. Bridge over the first bulge and
continue to the second where a move right is made on to the arete in a fine position. Make a difficult
move up into a scoop and delicately back left to continue more easily up the arete to a good ledge
and belay below the final short corner.
4: 4c 6m Climb this deceptive corner to the top.
Pitches 2, 3 & 4 have been described as hard for this grade, and poorly protected.
L. Griffin, M. Curran 1973 FFA A. Millar, P. Dunlop 1985
Dermot Mullen E2 6a 10m *
An alternative start to Gethsemane. Just up the hill from Gethsemane is a obvious hanging corner.
Move up a couple of metres to an undercut, and make a hard move right across to the base of this
corner. Climb up for a few metres, until the route description forces you out right to a jug, which allows
you to traverse over rightwards to join Gethsemane below its crux. Do what you want here. This
would provide the first half to a good, independent route.
N. Grimes, A. Millar 27/10/91
Tears of Roy E1 5b 25m **
This route starts as for Gethsemane, but at 5m move right on good holds, around the bulging arete to
a good flake. Climb airily upwards and leftwards along the arete to the overhang. From here, traverse
right under the overhang all the way to Larceny. Continue up Larceny, or lower off the situ ab point
above The Deltoid Face. Exposed climbing on perfect rock.
A. Millar, G. Colhoun May 90
The Deltoid Face E3 6a 25m ***
Start just downhill from Gethsemane. See that really long diagonal crack running right to left? You
gain that from the left, and layback as far as a flat hold at 6m. Move right round the bulge on good
holds to a rest. From here, follow the vague arete up and slightly left on big flakes to the triangular
niche in the roof (as for Tears of Roy). Climb directly through the apex of the niche, cutting loose on 
11
www.uniqueascent.ie
flat holds and bodyparts. Continue up to a ledge and lower off situ wires.
N. Grimes, R. Fenlon, A. Millar, B. Mortimer 28/10/91
Aiseiri VS 4c 109m *
To the right of the white recess of Gethsemane is a vegetated niche. Start about 4m below and right
of this.
1: 4c 30m Climb 3m straight up to sloping ledge. Follow this as it rises steeply to left, then make a
tricky move into vegetated niche. Continue up left and after 3m move out right across vegetated rake
to rib leading diagonally left. Follow this to below overhang. Make two awkward moves across the
right-hand wall to vegetation. Move back left on to the Delta Face to a stance above the overhang as
for Larceny Pitch 3.
2: 4a 18m Layback up groove, follow obvious line of weakness around corner on left and continue up
to belay.
3: 4b 24m Follow groove for 4m to good flake runner. Step up on to slab and traverse left to edge.
Pull around corner and continue up to triangular overhang on right where it is possible to regain the
groove. Belay.
4: 4a 37m Pull out right and across vegetated rake, then up obvious groove to belay.
P. O'Leary. E. Goulding 04/06/60
The next four routes all start from the same point. The bottom edge of the Delta Face ends in a steep
wall immediately before it turns right across to the Main Face. This edge is a long ramp with a mix of
easy slabs and vegetation, with one short step, leading up to the foot of a pockled black corner - the
first pitch of Tarquins Groove proper. It is possible to climb a steep crack on the gully wall to arrive at
this point.
Larceny HS 4a 123m **
1: 30m up slabs and vegetation to the foot of the short step with a corner on its left-hand side. (Easy
but exposed) Most climbers would rope up at this point.
2: 4b 20m Up the short corner and then easily up vegetation to the foot of the black corner of
Tarquins Groove.
3: 4a 20m Step down and onto left wall. Traverse left to grass ledge. Follow this to corner at the
upper end. Move left round the front of the face past a sound but rocking block in a crack. Step down
and traverse left to a small but good belay ledge at the bottom apex of the Delta Face. Gethsemane
and Aiseiri both share this belay.
3: 4b 26m As for Aiseiri Pitch 2 for about 15m. Climb the overhanging wall on the right using crack,
and back right onto the slabs of the Delta Face proper. Ascend diagonally right to an obvious
triangular block lying at the foot of a steep corner. Gethsemane also shares this belay.
4: 4a 27m Descent about 3m and climb out right. Up for about 6m and then traverse diagonally left
above belay. Cross a slab towards the left edge of the Delta Face, and finish up groove. Other harder
4c variations finish up to the right of the face.
P. Kenny, C. Laracy Aug 55
Pussy Foot VS 4c 120m ***
Pitches 1, 2 & 3 as for Larceny. 70m
4: 4b 30m From the belay move up and then diagonally right across the face to the edge. Up this
airily to a ledge at 15m. From this ledge move slightly right, then left to a black corner.
5: 4a 20m Climb blocks at the back of the corner and move right. Continue straight up to base of
groove to left of the finish of Tarquins Groove. Up this groove and exit right on small ledge.
P. Kenny F. Winder Sept 55
A harder alternative climbs straight up onto the edge of the Delta Face from just before the swing
round left onto the bottom of the face on Pitch 3.
12
www.uniqueascent.ie
Troika VS 4b 126m
Pitches 1 & 2 as for Larceny. 5Om
3: 3c 15m As for Larceny to the corner at the top of the grass ledge, i.e., just before Larceny steps
down and round onto the Delta Face.
4: 4a 14m Climb a broad delicate rib on the right to belay.
5: 4b 20m Climb up a steep groove with a spike at 4m. Reach a slight overhang on the left and climb
this with a hard move to large ledge.
6: 4b 27m Move up on right - the closer to the edge the harder. Delicate friction moves and hard
finger pulls lead to exit at the top of Pussyfoot.
P. Kenny, B. Wright, D. Helliwell 11/09/55
Tarquins Groove HS 4b 131m ***
One of the classics of the crag giving consistently good climbing, and is well protected all the way.
This route takes the groove line at the right-hand side of the Delta Face and marking the start of the
Main Face. Start as for Larceny.
Pitches 1 & 2 up 50m to the foot of the black pockled corner.
3: 4a 24m Climb the corner groove using holds mainly on the left wall. Exit left to belay at the holly
tree.
4: 4a 16m Cross the groove, ascend the steep wall on the right and move left to the base of the
crack.
5: 4a 19m Climb the crack to belay on a large ledge beneath the huge overhang on the right.
6: 4b 22m Traverse left beneath the overhang and then move back right over bulge. Cross onto slab
above on the right of the corner and finish up easier rock.
F. Winder, H. Drasdo Aug 55
The Main Face
This is the long, generally clean wall, running from Tarquins Groove on the left to the overlapping
corner of Formorian on the right, where the crag becomes more broken again. The face contains
many good routes though some are marred by the approaches up huge heather terraces.
Battlers Draught E2 5c 90m **
To the right of Tarquins Groove is the obvious line of Thin Gully taken by the route Risorgimento.
This route takes the broad rib of clean rock between these two lines. Start: Climb the grassy Thin
Gully to the first rock step. On the left there is a short slab with an overhang. Start at the foot of the
slab.
1: 4a 21m Up slab on left of overhang and step back right above overhang. Continue up keeping left
and belay on grassy ledge at foot of short corner (poor belay).
2: 5c 12m Climb the thin crack above on left, laybacking around bulge to reach overhang, pinch grips
enable a difficult step left to small foothold and runner (small friend). Step back across right to good
sloping ledge (it may be possible to step right without stepping left first) and belay.
3: 4c 21m Up edge of gully for 2m passing two old pegs. Go left at second peg (as for
Risorgiomento) onto ramp, traverse to bottom of black crack. Climb crack to belay overlooking gully
4: 4b 18m Move slightly left and climb bulge and continue to belay on large ledge.
5: 5a 18m From left end of the ledge climb the steep wall/crackline
C. Torrans, C. Sheridan 17/04/81
Risorgimento VS 126m
Follows roughly the line of Thin Gully, partly in the gully, partly on the ribs to either side. Fairly broken
and vegetated. The route is not attractive and interested climbers are left to discover their own way.
Much of the line is easy and difficulties are short.
B. MacCall, K. Shelley, W. Hannon 16/04/60
13
www.uniqueascent.ie
Surplomb Grise HVS 4c 136m **
Start: About 30m to the right of Thin Gully (and about halfway between it and the obvious prominent
corner of Rule Britannia) is a long straight steep groove. Directly beneath this, the lines of vegetation
reach the highest point at a large overhanging cap of heather. The crux lies about 9m above, and
slightly to the left of this heather.
1: 75m Climb the mixed rock and vegetation in the lower half of Thin Gully and then traverse right to
ledge at top of heather cap.
2: 4c 22m The crux: climb two short slabs above, trending left, then move left and climb a steep crack
leading to a small pulpit. Avoid bulge above by moving out right - delicate - and up to ledge. Continue
up to corner on right. Good thread belay.
3: 4a 18m Move left across groove and climb steep crack to trees.
4: 9m Climb generally left until the top of an enormous block projecting over the gully is reached.
5: 4b 12m Climb a short wall to the base of a vertical groove above and slightly right. Substantial
holds in the groove lead to easier rock and the top.
F. Winder, B. Ball 11/09/55
Gaffney's Climb HVS 159m
This route starts as for Surplomb Grise but then moves directly up and right to finish the last corner of
Erin Go Bragh.
1: 75m As for Surplomb Grise
2: 18m Climb the two short slabs as for Surplomb Grise but move diagonally right on the upper one
to reach a steep crack. Up crack and step left at 3m onto sloping ledge. Traverse left then up to belay
in steep groove.
3: 18m Up groove for 6m. Step right to avoid overhang, regain fault and ascent broken overhangs to
belay.
4: 30m Climb overhangs above and continue to smooth slab. Traverse right to belay under the
overhanging corner of Erin Go Bragh.
5: 18m. As for Erin Go Bragh, Pitch 4. Turn overhang by climbing right-hand wall.
An alternative to Pitch 4 was climbed by P O'Leary and P McHugh on 17/6/67. From the smooth slab
traverse diagonally left to small ledge with vertical crack at the back. Up crack and continue for 3m.
Step down to a broad ledge on the left. Up to ledge at higher level and traverse left for 6m to broad
ledge. Exit on right.
E. Gaffney, G. Moore, G. Cairns Pitch 2 May 62 P O'Leary, E. Goulding Pitches 3 & 4 30/05/66
Rule Britannia/Erin Go Bragh HVS 5a 79m **
The original Rule Britannia moved diagonally left from the top of Pitch 2 to finish up Surplomb Grise.
Erin Go Bragh is the direct finish giving a much superior route. Start: About halfway between Thin
Gully and Fomorian there is a prominent corner which is about as far to the right of Surplomb Grise as
the latter is right of Thin Gully. The length of the climb does not include initial scrambling.
1: 5a 21m Start from a large grassy area below the corner. Climb up zigzag gangways, moving to the
left at first, then right, then left again until the rock becomes steeper. Climb the next 3m with difficulty
to a sloping ledge. Traverse left across wet streaks - thin - to reach the bottom of the grass, up right to
belay.
2: 3c 13m Up the slab on the left to another grassy ledge and along this for about 7m to a small spike
belay.
3: 5a 27m Above the Belay Climb to a corner and up it to an overhang. Move right and up to flake.
Step left to a nose and continue up to overhanging corner.
4: 5a 18m Turn overhang by climbing up right-hand wall. Easy climbing to belay.
H. Banner, J. 0'Neill 02/04/61 (Rule Britannia - Pitches 1 & 2)
Calvary Crossings HVS 5a 79m **
This climb takes the area of rock left of the first belay on Ploughshare to finish above the large 
14
www.uniqueascent.ie
prominent corner, which in turn lies directly above the first pitch of Rule Britannia.
1: 5a 22m Climb the first pitch of Ploughshare.
2: 4c 39m Climb diagonally left across the slab, passing a good flake runner until a few delicate
moves lead to a crack line emerging from the large corner mentioned above Move up to a small
heather ledge and bridge the corner above to the top, leaving it to the right by memorable moves.Up
more easily to a small grotto and thread belays. Last section is Erin Go Bragh.
3: 4c 18m Easily up to the Top.
L. Griffen, M. Curran 23/03/75
Granite Gangway VS 4a, 4c 50m *
This is a great access route all the routes starting from Ploughshare ledge and are two fine pitches in
their own right.
1. 4a 15m Start at left edge of the prominent overhung slab on the lower part of the main face below
the Formorian fault. Climb the clean white groove leading left to a heather ledge at 15m and belay at
good in situ tat.
2. 4c 35m Move right from tat up onto slab to short crack then traverse left under another hanging
slab on good holds until a step up left is possible onto good ledge. Climb the slab for 25m past
various sloping ledges to short corner just below heather, moving up slightly to the right of this onto
gentler slab and then to right end of Ploughshare ledge.
A. Millar D. Ryan May 2001.
Ploughshare VS 4c 62m **
This route takes a line up the centre of the Main Face. Start by scrambling up the slanting line of
vegetation which reaches highest up the face.
1: 4c 22m From the highest (left-hand) side of the strip of vegetation climb diagonally upwards using
thin flakes and friction. A short steep wall is followed by a delicate traverse on a horizontal ledge. Up
to vegetation and belay.
2: 4a 18m Traverse right for 10m on broken rock to a pocked slab on the left.
3: 4a 22m Continue upwards, using a series of platforms moving right, then left, to avoid a small
overhang. Continue up on vegetated platforms, moving left where the walls fall away to a slab. Climb
the corner of the slab and finish up a short wall.
E. Healey, P. O'Halpin 22/05/61
Kestrel VS 4c 81m
Start at the lower (right-hand) end of the grass ledge from which Ploughshare starts and the foot of a
groove below the start of Formorian.
1: 4c 24m Move straight up to a small resting place, then left and along ledge to obvious fault to gain
large green terrace.
2: 4b 15m From left-hand end of terrace move up under overhang to reach belay at the top of
Ploughshare. Pitch 1.
3: 3c 30m Cross the base of the pockled slab (as Ploughshare Pitch 2) then right under rotten rock to
continue up to belay.
4: 3b 12m Continue straight up easily to the top.
P. O'Halpin, E. Goulding 06/05/62
Formorian VS 4c 65m *
This route starts at the foot of the obvious fault curving left half way between Surplomb Grise and the
end of the cliff, directly above the left edge of the prominent overhung slab on the lower part of the
face. It marks the right edge of the Main Face. There are three ways of approaching the fault, none of
them entirely pleasant and most parties will want to rope up for them:
1: Follow a series of heather ledges from the gully that lies about 60m to the right.
2: 4b 45m From the left edge of the overhung slab move right to gain a rib slanting left. Follow this to 
15
www.uniqueascent.ie
a heather terrace and up mixed ground to the base of the fault. Climb up corner for about 8m to an
overhung niche and belay. 10m Left and slightly above the start of Pitch 2 is a small wall that leads on
to good slabs giving approx 25m of continuous rock before moving right on vegetated ledges to the
base of the fault as Pitch 1.
3: 23m From the belay there are two alternative pitches. The original route is described first with the
easier Cripples Way after.
I: 4c Swing out right onto the upper face. Move up delicately on the edge, then right along a sloping
ledge, and up on to a similar ledge above. Up on small quartz knobs to good holds and a grassy
ledge.
II: 4b Continue up the fault corner for 12m, then climb diagonally right to join the original route before
the quartz knobs.
4: 3b 21 m Traverse right along ledge for 4m, then climb diagonally left to weakness in overhang.
Through this and up wall to grassy ledge on left.
5: 21 m Easy climbing to the top.
E. Healey, F. Winder (16/4/60) First Ascent but different pitches 2 & 3
The Leopard E1 5b 69m
1: 4b 23m As for Fomorian
2: 5b 25m Traverse left from the belay and up to a thin flake. Climb directly up and turn the overhang
on the left. Then back right to a good ledge. Plenty of protection
3: 3b 21 m As for Fomorian.
I. Rea, M. Rea 06/05/95
The next four routes lie on the more broken and vegetated rock at the right-hand end of the crag.
They are not described in detail.
Goats Alley S 120m
Starts as for Formorian to the bottom of the wall right of the fault line and follows a generally
rightward trending line up the slabs and wall right of Formorian.
S. Payne, L. Smith April 59
Firbolg VS 69m
The climb lies up the clean white slab to the right of Goat's Alley. Start to the right of the overhung
slab at the base of the cliff (as Formorian) and climb the slab to a vegetated ledge below an
overhanging wall. It climbs this and moves left via a small overhang to the top.
S. Rothery, P. O'Halpin, E. Wilkenson April 59
Avalanche S 90m
This route starts just to the right of Firbolg at the centre of the slab. It follows a line, trending right up
slabs and loose rock to the top. Not recommended.
N. Brown, S. Rothery, P. Hayden, F. Butler 22/06/60
North Slabs VD 90m
This climb takes a line up slabs and vegetation to the right of Avalanche. Start up a white slab low
down on the extreme right-hand end of the cliff.
S. Rothery, N. Rothery 03/04/61
Bingorm Central
Directions: See Guide
Map ref: B941143
16
www.uniqueascent.ie
Gray Slab VD 63m
The route follows the edge of the first rocks on the left side of the crag, starting high up, above and
left of the long easily angled slabs of Bin Man. The climb starts on a rib of a gully and continues up
the slabs above.
N. Brown, W.Hannon, F.Butler, E. Gallagher 25/05/60
Bin Man S 123m
The route starts on the long easily angled slabs at the bottom left of the crag. Follow the two main
slabs and move generally right to reach a chimney at about 90 m. Climb this steep but easy chimney
and second chimney above to top.
E. Healey, B. MacCall (Alt. Leads) W.Hannon, K.Shelley 17/04/60
Twilight S 93m
This route is on the left hand side of the largest rock mass of the central buttress. Start at the foot of
the obvious chimney below the twin grooves leading to the overhang at the top of the buttress. 1/.
39m. Climb the wall to the right of the chimney and pull up onto vegetated ledge at 9m. Move right
and up short walls, then back into the groove and up to stance. 2/. 30m Straight up groove and wall
on left on good holds to ledge below overhangs. 3/. 24m. Move right along ledge and up into obvious
corner at 9m. Down to the right below a small overhang which is climbed strenuously, continue up
slabs to the top.
N. Brown, S. Rothery (Alt. leads) E. Gallagher, F. Butler 20/06/60
White Slab S 90m
Start in the centre of the large white slab low down on the central section of the buttress, to the left of
the deep gully.
1: 39m. Straight up centre of slab to vegetated ledge at 24m. Move left and up to platform at the 
17
www.uniqueascent.ie
bottom of a steep corner.
2: 15m Climb the corner groove to a stance at mid height.
3: 22m. Traverse round to the right to a heather tongue and up to a broad ledge under an overhang.
4: 14m Move along ledge to the right and up corner on the left of the deep gully.
S. Rothery, T. Cullen, S. Yates, U. Moore 16/04/60
Botany Bay S 4a 75m
This route follows the left edge of the deep gully. Start to the right and about 15m above the start of
"White Slab".
1: 23m Climb the steep slab by a groove slanting to the right and up to grass ledge.
2:15m. Move across to the left and up a vegetated overhang to belay below next slab.
3:18m. Climb a short vegetated groove and traverse left and up corner to a large field of dwarf oaks.
4: 19m. Climb above the large block onto the edge of the gully, and join White Slab for the final 10m.
S. Rothery, F. Beloe 20/05/61
Felicitation VD 60m
The route follows a narrow rib up the central section of the cliff.
P. Gribbon, C. Sloan, E. Innes, April 1955
Apollo VS 4c 63m
The Climb follows the cracks on the slabs immediately to the right of the main gully and continues up
a rib on the face.
1: 24m. Take the left hand of two parallel cracks to overhang, up this on the right and continue up
crack by increasingly difficult moves, leading to a small sloping ledge with a patch of vegetation in a
corner on the left.Belay.
2: Move up edge for 3m and then back right onto face. Up slab to grass ledge.
3: 30m. Traverse right over two ribs to second groove, which is climbed for 5m before stepping right
onto rib. Follow the general line of this to the top.
P. O'Leary, P. O'Halpin, P. Power 06/06/60
Oblivion S 84m
Start at the lowest point of the right hand buttress. A poor route following slabs and vegetation up the
broken buttress.
E. Gallagher, N. Brown 15/04/60
Failure VD 48m
A further gully separates Bingorm Central from Bingorm East. This route starts left and above the
corner of the rib on the left of the gully, and follows a line of broken rocks and slabs, finishing up a
shallow vegetated chimney.
P.& T.Cripps 26/03/69
Bingorm East
Directions: The large, mainly heavily vegetated, north east facing crag forming the right shoulder of
the long Bingorm spur.
Map ref: B940145
Risotto VD 45m
This route lies on the series of white slabs on the extreme left of the crag, starting about 100m below
the large white slab high up on the buttress. Start at the bottom left and traverse diagonally up and
right to the top of the slab at 18m. Continue up and right for another 18m to vegetation. Move right 
18
www.uniqueascent.ie
onto ramp leading back left to mantelshelf, vegetation and finish.
E. Gallagher, N. Rothery, S. Farrell, N. Brown 24/06/60
Sabotage HS 150m
On the left side of the main crag, the rock starts in two sections split by a shallow gully, joining above
to form a white slab running a quarter of the way up the cliff. The route takes the left hand slab until it
widens above a few patches of vegetation. Move up and then right along a smooth shelf below a wall.
Surmount the wall by good but small holds to the left. Continue up slabs and ledges to the top.
B. Healey, F. Winder 17/04/60
Balor VS 216m
To the right of Sabotage, the cliff, as seen from the right, is split by a groove running in three sections
to the final wall. The route starts about 30m to the left of the groove.
1: 38m A band of vegetation runs from bottom left to top right of the slab, finishing just left of the
groove.
2: 21 m Move diagonally left on thin line of vegetation and up to foot of wall.
3: 24m Walk right along ledge to undercut groove with tree.
4: 9m Pull up into groove and up to tree.
5: 12m Move left onto edge of rib. Up and cross groove to vegetation on right.
6: 18m Move right to end of vegetation and continue delicately onto slab. Climb up left to cross
vegetation and up another slab reaching corner below next wall.
7: 27m Traverse right and ascend slab to stance at 9m at bottom of third groove. Climb corner to
near top and move left onto ledge.
8: 16m Move diagonally right and up to perched block - the Balor.
9: 24m Continue to traverse right. At 6m move up to obvious flake. Diagonally right to red pockled
slab, then up on vegetation.
10: 27m Pull up, ascend groove and climb diagonally right on easier rocks to belay.
H. Drasdo, F. Winder 23/08/55
Toraigh VS 4c 129m
On the centre of the main face is a bright green patch set under the upper overhangs. Below this the
diedre forming the beginning of the second pitch is seen to be the exit line from the lower overhangs.
Start at an incut section of the lower slabs below and slightly to the right of the diedre.
1: 21 m Climb the slab to trees under the overhang.
2: 21 m (4a) Start up corner of diedre, moving left and then back right to exit over loose rock onto
ledge Traverse 6m right to belay.
3: 15m (4c) Climb diagonally left across exposed slab and up groove in centre of slab.
4: 24m (4b) Take a line over ledges and up over overhanging corner to gain the prominent bright
green patch of ivy.
5: 24m (4b) Traverse left to rib on skyline, surmount nose, gain ledge and up to detached block.
Continue up ledges and move right about 9m to belav.
6: 24m Traverse right to first break upwards and to left. Scramble to top.
P. O'Halpin, E, Healey (Alt leads) and S Rothery P O'Leary (2 parties) 05/06/65
Crockbrack
19
www.uniqueascent.ie
Intermural VD 10m
On Crockbrack, a small but cleanish outcrop across the valley east of the main Bingorm group, and
north of the Lough Barra Rd. This route takes a large chimney on the left of the buttress formed by a
huge toppled block.
B. Wright, D. Helliwell 13/10/56
Intercession S 10m
The deep crack curving up from right to left, beneath an overhanging wall to the right of Intermural.
D. Helliwell, B. Wright 13/10/56
Interlude V.Diff 10m
The prominent rightward facing corner on the right, with a short ramp leading in from the right. Good
climbing.
B. Wright, D. Helliwell 13/10/56
Intermittent V.Diff 10m
The right edge on the slab on the right hand side of the buttress. The route can be connected with
lower slabs to give a rather artificial route of up to 40m in length.
D. Helliwell, B. Wright 13/10/56