1
www.uniqueascent.ie
A Climbers Guide to
Tororragaun
By
Iain Miller
www.uniqueascent.ie
2
www.uniqueascent.ie
Tororragaun
Tororragaun is a 22 metre high rocky granite island living in the channel between Gola and Umfin
Islands four kilometres off the Gweedore coast. The island is effectively guarded on all sides by Gola
Island quality sea cliffs and off course the potential for climbing new routes is enormous. Running
through the centre of the island is a huge, and I do mean HUGE, sea washed water spout. It is difficult
to imagine the size of this water spout but it would easily accommodate a million tons of sea water at
a time.
There is no fresh water on the island and pretty much every horizontal surface is birded as this is
home to approx. 500 nesting pairs of Fulmar and a token amount of Gannet. Best avoid the island
during the nesting period as there is nowhere to go to avoid being spat on.
Access to the island by sea kayak from Port Arthur Pier at Map ref B798284 on the Gweedore Coast.
Landing on Tororragaun in not without a certain degree of rocky uncertainty as there are no easy
landing beaches, coves or recesses. The easiest landing is at the eastern tip of the island onto rock
sea level ledges. With a west sea running the island provides excellent lee and this eastern tip has
large non-tidal ledges for kayak storage.
Map ref: B766280
Tororragaun Rock Climbing
Lukes View Diff
Climb the gentle angled ridge at the seaward edge of the main face.
I. Miller 16/10/15
Gannets Folly Mild Severe
Climb the first deep crack in from the seaward end of the face.
I. Miller 16/10/15
3
www.uniqueascent.ie
Heelanmans Umbrella S 4a
Climb the tapering corner crack to a recess and follow cracks above to summit.
I. Miller 16/10/15
Jugfest S 4a
Climb the continual deep crack from sea to the summit.
I. Miller 16/10/15
Unusual Beginnings S 4a
Climb the next crack in from the sea where the wall steepens, holds get bigger as height is gained.
I. Miller 16/10/15
The Troll HS 4b **
Climb the narrow twin crack immediately below the bridge on the seaward side.
I. Miller 01/06/16
The Corner V.Diff
Climb the big corner at the landward end of the wall right of the troll. Access by the green staircase at
the very back of the spoot.
I. Miller 01/06/16